* Exported from MasterCook *

                          100% Whole Wheat Bread

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/2           cups  water
  2               Tbsp  butter -- cut in 4 pieces
  2               Tbsp  honey
  1 1/4            tsp  salt
  2        tablespoons  dried buttermilk
     1/3           cup  potato flakes
  3               Tbsp  gluten, wheat
  3               cups  whole wheat flour -- *
     1/3           cup  sesame seeds -- optional
  1 3/4            tsp  active dry yeast -- instant
                        -- (or 2 tsp. active dry yeast)

* I grind my own and it's somewhat coarse; you may need more or less according to the moisture content and texture of your flour.

Place all ingredients in bread pan in order listed and process on
while/whole grain setting.  Sesame seeds are optional, but they add
wonderful aroma and flavor as well as fiber and texture.  When I use them,
I add them at the start along with other ingredients.

>From: bbriscoe@infolink.morris.mn.us (Bonnie Briscoe)



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                        100% Whole Wheat Bread #3

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1         tablespoon  active dry yeast -- Red Star
  3               cups  whole wheat flour -- Pillsbury
  1         tablespoon  gluten, wheat
     1/2           cup  potato flakes
  2         tablespoon  sugar
  1 1/2            tsp  salt
     1/4           cup  canola oil
  1 1/4            cup  warm water
                        -- (more or less depending on flour &
                        humidity)

Use instructions from your particular machine.  The ingredients have to
go into the DAK in the order listed above, but other machines require a
different order.

I make this basic bread and also variations of it, using herbs, chopped
onions etc, or a  combine raisins and sweet spices.  It's very versatile.
 Use your imagination.  If you can get Pillsbury whole wheat (graham)
flour please do so as I find it works better than most.

>From: magherrick@juno.com (MARGARET E HERRICK)


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                            4-H Champion Bread

Recipe By     :Lobo119@worldnet.att.net
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       White Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2           Packages  yeast
     3/4           Cup  dry milk
     1/4           Cup  sugar
  2        Tablespoons  sugar
  12              Cups  flour
  4 1/2           Cups  warm water
  2        Tablespoons  salt
  4 1/2    Tablespoons  margarine

Makes 4 loaves

Dissolve yeast in 1/2 cup of the water.  Mix remaining 4 cups water, dry
milk, salt, sugar and margarine.  Add yeast.  Add 5 c. flour and beat.  Let
stand 15 min.  Beat.  Add flour to make soft dough.  Add last flour.  Knead
until smooth and elastic.  Grease ball and place in bowl.  Cover.  Let rise
to double.  Knead down and divide in 4. Let stand 15-30 min. and make into
loaves.  Let rise until 3/4 inch over top of 1 lb. tin.  Bake at 350F for 40
minutes.


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                  4-H Champion Bread - Sourdough Version

Recipe By     :Lobo119@worldnet.att.net
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Sourdough Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  3               Cups  sourdough starter -- expanded
  3 1/3           Cups  warm water
                        -- or beer or buttermilk -- at room temp
     1/4           Cup  sugar
  2        Tablespoons  sugar
  2        Tablespoons  salt
  4 1/2    Tablespoons  margarine -- melted
  9               Cups  flour -- (9-10 cups)

Makes four loaves

Mix sourdough, water, sugar, salt, and margarine.  Add 5 cups flour and
beat until smooth.  Let stand 15 minutes.  Add flour to make a soft dough.
Knead, adding flour, until dough is no longer sticky.  Place dough in large
bowl.  Cover with a dish towel.  Let rise until double in volume.*  Knead
down and divide into fourths.  Let stand 15-30 minutes.  Shape into loaves
and place into greased and floured one-pound loaf pans.  Let rise until 3/4
inch over top of pan.  Bake at 350F for 40 min.
	*On a cold day, you can speed the raising process.  Set the oven to 200
degrees for 2 minutes.  Turn oven off immediately and place bread, covered
with aluminum foil - in metal or glass bowl only - in oven to raise.


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                               Almond Buns

Recipe By     :Boone's Tavern, Berea College, Kentucky
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Nut & Seed Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2                     yeast cake -- compressed
  1         tablespoon  sugar
  1                cup  flour
     1/4           cup  melted butter
  1                tsp  salt
  3                cup  flour
     1/4           cup  water
  1                cup  milk -- scalded
  2                     egg yolks
     1/4           cup  sugar
     1/2            lb  blanched almonds
                        -- 1/4 cup finely chopped for the topping
  1                     egg yolk -- mixed with:
  1               tbsp  milk -- to brush the top

Dissolve yeast in water and sugar.  Scald milk.  When milk is tepid, add
yeast mixture.  Add 1 c flour and mix well.  Set in a warm place to rise.
Add remaining ingredients (except topping ingredients) and mix well.  The
dough should be stiff.  Allow to rise until doubled and light.  Shape into
small rounds and place in a well greased pan 1 1/2 inches apart.  Brush
tops with egg yolk and milk mixture, then sprinkle with chopped almonds.
Let rise until doubled in size.  Bake at 350' for 20-30 minutes.

>From: kwheless@peachnet.campus.mci.net (Karen Lynn Wheless)



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                        Amish Friendship Bread #3

Recipe By     :>From: waltersr6@juno.com (Chrystal N Walters)
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Sourdough Breads
                Yeast Free

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                  ****

Amish Friendship Bread originally got it's name because after all the
mixing and waiting for 10 days, you made your bread and gave away ALL of
your starters to friends.  They in turn do the same and hopefully you get
a starter from one of them in 10 days.  If you do, then you will have a
loaf of bread every 20 days.  This bread is very good but it does get
tiring to have every 10 days.  Make arrangements with a friend so that
you can make bread every 20 days.
If the instructions for the starter were right (no flame intended :o) ), mix together in a large zipper-type bag:  1 cup flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup
milk.  Leave on your kitchen counter.

NOTES:  Do not use a metal spoon or bowl for mixing.  Do not refrigerate
starter.  Let air out of bag (especially in really warm climates-bags
have been known to explode).  Date the bag so you don't lose track, and
if you do, don't worry.  A few more days will just make a stronger
flavor.

Day 1	This is the day you make or receive a starter.  Do nothing.
Day 2  	Squeeze the bag.
Day 3	Squeeze the bag.
Day 4	Squeeze the bag.
Day 5	Squeeze the bag.
Day 6	Add 1 cup all purpose flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk.
Day 7	Squeeze the bag.
Day 8	Squeeze the bag.
Day 9	Squeeze the bag.
Day 10	Combine in a large bowl:  The contents of the bag, 1 cup
flour, 1 	cup sugar, 1 cup milk.  Mix with wooden spoon.  Pour 4
1 cup 	starters in 4 large zipper-type bags.  Keep one and give
away the 	other 3 starters to friends along with the
instructions.  (Or give 	away all 4).
Still on Day 10, add to the remaining batter in the bowl (about 1/2 cup
batter left):
	1 cup oil			3 large eggs
	1 cup sugar			1 1/2 t. baking powder
	1 t. vanilla			1/2 t. salt
	2 c. flour			1/2 cup milk
	1/2 t. baking soda		2 t. cinnamon (I add 3 t.)
	1 large box (8 Serv.) instant vanilla pudding
	1 cup chopped pecans

Pour into 2 large well greased and sugared loaf pans (mix cinnamon and
sugar).  Sprinkle tops of batter with extra cinnamon-sugar mixture.
Bake at 325 degrees for one hour.

I've been told there is an Amish community where an 80 year old woman is
still making bread from starters that originated from her starter many,
many years ago.  I always manage to lose my starters after a couple of
months.


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                         Amish Friendship Starter

Recipe By     :Heartland: The Best of the Old and the New . . .
Serving Size  : 4     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Fatfree
                Starter

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  4               cups  all-purpose flour -- divided
  2               cups  warm water
  1            package  active dry yeast
  2               cups  milk -- divided
  2               cups  granulated sugar -- divided

   DAY 1:  In a glass or ceramic bowl, mix 2 cups flour, warm water and
yeast thoroughly. Leave uncovered on kitchen counter; don't refrigerate.
(You may have received one cup of starter from a friend. If so, you do
not have to make the above culture and can directly to the bread
recipes, unless you want to keep the starter going. If you do, then
continue with the following directions.)
   DAYS 2, 3 and 4:  Stir well with wooden spoon.
   DAY 5:  Stir and add 1 cup milk, 1 cup flour and 1 cup sugar. Stir
well. This is called "feeding the starter."
   DAYS 6, 7 and 8:  Stir well with wooden spoon.
   DAY 9:  Stir and add remaining 1 cup milk, 1 cup flour and 1 cup
sugar. Stir well.
   DAYS 10 and 11:  Stir well with wooden spoon.
   DAY 12:  Ladle 1 cup starter into each of 4 containers (such as glass
jars with lids) and refrigerate. Use one in a recipe, keep one for your
use another time and give the two others to friends. Don't forget to
include recipes (including the starter) for your friends.

This recipe is from "Heartland: The Best of the Old and the New from
Midwest Kitchens" by Marcia Adams. It was reprinted in the St. Louis
Post-Dispatch (mid-1990's, exact date unknown). Part of the article
appears below.

"Some of you have learned to tame the relentless feed-and-bake,
feed-and-bake cycle that dooms many pots of starter. When Ann Simpson of
Bridgeton makes bread, she freezes one cup of the starter for the next
batch. Be sure to let the starter come to room temperature and stir well
before using.

"Last fall, a friend gave some starter to Etta Taylor of St. Louis. 'I
was really beginning to feel disenchanted with its reproductive
necessities when I got a copy of "The Baking Sheet" from King Arthur
Flour (in Vermont),' she wrote. 'This gave me the courage just to keep a
container of this starter in the fridge (alongside my 20-year-old
regular sourdough pot!) and feed it with some sugar about every two
weeks. Before I get ready to make some more bread, I double the starter
and use about 2-1/2 cups of it for the bread recipe and return the rest
to the fridge. Now I feel like *I* am in control.' "




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : "It is my observation that having this starter around is like
getting married -- it is a real commitment, and it is forever. And like
that institution, it gets better with age," wrote Marcia Adams, author
of "Heartland: The Best of the Old and the New from Midwest Kitchens."

"Some rules to observe: Use non-metallic bowls; use wooden utensils for
stirring, not an electric mixer. Leave the starter outside the
refrigerator, uncovered. This is so it can pick up from the natural
yeast flying about your kitchen. If the open dish bothers you terribly,
it can be covered with a single layer of cheesecloth.

"Do not use the starter the day you feed it; the bread will not rise as
high. Do not refrigerate it until day 12. The starter really multiplies
after the fifth day, so be sure your container is large enough; I use a
10-cup bowl. I also keep a paper and pencil next to it and write down
what I do when, so I don't get off schedule."

>From: Julia West <classact@i1.net>



* Exported from MasterCook *

                             Anadama Bread #9

Recipe By     :The Ultimate Bread Machine Cookbook
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2 1/4      teaspoons  Yeast
  2 1/2           cups  Bread flour
     1/2           cup  Whole wheat flour
     1/3           cup  Cornmeal -- coarsely ground
  1 1/2      teaspoons  Salt
  4        tablespoons  Powdered milk
  2        tablespoons  Butter or margarine
  1 1/4           cups  Water
  3        tablespoons  Molasses
  1           teaspoon  Lemon juice

Place all ingredients in machine and push start! Not recommended for use
with timer.

 From THE ULTIMATE BREAD MACHINE COOKBOOK by Lacalamita  Yield: 1 servings
 Posted on NVN #134206 by Laguda on 06/12/94, MM format


>From: LaeBelle@aol.com




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                       Anadama Bread #10, One Bowl

Recipe By     :Fleischmann's New Treasury of Yeast Baking, 1970
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  5 1/2           Cups  unsifted flour -- (5 1/2 to 6 1/2)
  2 1/2      Teaspoons  salt
  1                Cup  yellow cornmeal
  2           Packages  active dry yeast
     1/4           Cup  butter or margarine
  2               Cups  hot water
     1/2           Cup  molasses -- at room temperature

Makes 2 loaves

Combine 2 1/2 cups flour, salt, corn meal, and yeast in bowl. Add softened
margarine. Gradually add very hot tap water and molasses and beat for 2
minutes at medium speed of electric mixer, scraping bowl as needed. Add
1/2 cup flour or enough to make a thick batter. Beat at high speed for
2 more minutes. Stir in enough additional flour to make a soft dough.
Turn out on floured board, and knead for about 8 to 10 minutes, until
smooth and elastic. Place in greased bowl, turning to grease top. Cover
and let rise until doubled, about an hour. Punch down, shape into two
loaves, place in greased 8 1/2 by 4 1/2 by 2 1/2 inch loaf pans. Let
rise again, about 45 minutes. Bake at 375 F 35 to 40 minutes or until done.
Cool on wire racks.

>From: Patt Bromberger <patt@squid.tram.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                            Anadama Bread #11

Recipe By     :KitchenAid Cookbook
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Low Fat
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2               cups  cold water
  1                cup  cornmeal
     1/2           cup  molasses
     1/3           cup  butter or margarine
  2          teaspoons  salt
  5               cups  unbleached flour -- (5 to 6)
  2           packages  active dry yeast
  2                     eggs

yield 2 loaves

Combine water and cornmeal in saucepan over medium heat. Cook and stir
until thickened. (I put them in the microwave in a Pyrex measuring cup.)
Remove from heat and add molasses, butter, and salt. Cool to lukewarm.
Place 4 cups flour and yeast in bowl. Attach bowl and dough hook. Turn
to speed 2 and mix 15 seconds. Gradually add cornmeal mixture and eggs
and mix 1 minute. Continuing on speed 2, add remaining flour, 1/2 cup
at a time, until dough clings to hook and cleans sides of bowl. Knead
on speed 2 for 2 minutes or until dough is smooth and elastic. Place
in greased bowl, turning to grease top. Cover; let rise in warm place
free from draft until doubled, about 1 hour. Punch dough down and divide
in half. Form into loaves and place in greased 8 1/2 by 4 1/2 by 2 1/2
inch pans. Cover; let rise until almost doubled in bulk, about 45 minutes.
Bake at 375 F for 25 minutes. Cover loaves with aluminum foil and bake
15 minutes longer. Remove from pans and cool on wire racks.

>From: Patt Bromberger <patt@squid.tram.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : I never bother with the aluminum foil, since we don't mind a dark crust. The molasses browns quite dark in the oven, all that sugar would. This is great for breakfast toast or with peanut butter.


* Exported from MasterCook *

                        Ancient Roman Bread Folly

Recipe By     :bgl
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :3:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Dough Cycle                     Fatfree
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/2           cups  water
  3               cups  whole wheat flour -- white
  1                cup  bread flour
  1         tablespoon  yeast
  1         tablespoon  Laura Brody Dough Enhancer
  4        tablespoons  olive oil
  2          teaspoons  salt
  1         tablespoon  fresh rosemary -- chopped fine
                        extra olive oil and salt for topping










Put in bread Machine in the order of machine ..use dough cycle..  flatten out. put in large round pan.. let rise for an other hour ..flatten with fingers..drizzle more olive oil lightly on top..sprinkle with Kosher salt..Bake in 450 preheated oven for 25 min.

>From: bgl@leass.PCC.COM (Barbara Leass)



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Serving Ideas : great with salad..dipped in olive oil  or hummus

NOTES : An experiment for Meredith's Roman Empire Project.




* Exported from MasterCook *

                       Apple Cinnamon Granola Bread

Recipe By     :Fleischmann
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Fruit And Spice Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  Water
     1/2           cup  Unsweetened Applesauce
     1/2          Tbsp  Wonderslim -- *Note
     3/4           Tsp  Salt
  2 1/4            cup  Whole Wheat Flour
  1 1/4            cup  Bread Flour
     3/4           cup  Granola
     1/3           cup  Nonfat Dry Milk
  4                Tsp  Packed Brown Sugar
     3/4           Tsp  Cinnamon
  1 1/2            Tsp  Yeast

*Note:  Original recipe called for 1 tbsp butter or margarine.

Regular cycle.

Cal  189.3
Fat      2.8
CFF   12.8%

>From: Dawn Forsyth <honu@netgate.net>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                  Apricot Date Bread With Rosemary <R T>

Recipe By     :BH&G, Simply Perfect Baking
Serving Size  : 28    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls
                Fatfree                         Fruit And Spice Breads
                Hand Made                       Yeast Free


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/2            cup  Apricot Nectar
  8                 Oz  Snipped Pitted Dates -- (1 1/2 C)
     1/2           cup  Snipped Dried Apricots
  1               Tbsp  Finely Shredded Orange Peel
  1 1/4            Tsp  Dried Rosemary -- Crushed
  2 1/4            cup  All-Purpose Flour
  1 1/2            Tsp  Baking Soda
     1/2           cup  Icbinb-Light -- *Note
  1                cup  Sugar
     1/4           cup  Egg Beaters(r) 99% Egg Substitute -- **Note
     1/3           cup  Nonfat Milk -- ***Note

*NOTE:  Original recipe used butter or margarine...I used I Can't Believe
It's Not Butter - Light
**NOTE:  Original recipe used 1 regular egg
***NOTE:  Original recipe used evaporated milk

Lightly grease eight (4 1/2x2 1/2x1 1/2") loaf pans, four (5 1/2x3x2") loaf
pans or three (71/2x31/2x2") loaf pans.  I used two (9x5x2 3/4") loaf pans
as this is what I had.

Combine apricot nectar, dates, apricots in a med saucepan; bring to
boiling.  Reduce heat and simmer, covered, for 5 min.  Remove from heat.
Stir in orange peel and rosemary; cool slightly.

Meanwhile, stir together flour and baking soda in a small mixing bowl.

Beat butter or margarine in a large mixing bowl with an electric mixer on
med speed for 30 seconds or till softened.  Gradually add sugar, beating
till fluffy.  Beat in egg and milk.  Alternately add flour mixture and date
mixture to batter, beating just till combined after each addition.  Spread
batter in prepared baking pans.

Bake in a 375 deg F oven till a toothpick inserted near the center comes
out clean, allowing about 25 min for the 4 1/2x2 1/2" pans, about 35 min
for the 5 1/2x3" pans and about 40 min for the 7 1/2x3 1/2" pans.  Cool in
pans for 10 min.  Remove from pans; cool completely on wire racks.  Wrap
and store overnight before slicing.

Makes 32 servings.  Because I used a different size baking pans I got about
28 slices total...this is what I based my counts on.

According to magazine Per serving:
Cal 116; Fat 3g; Carb 21g; Fib 1g; Pro 2h; Sod 94mg

This is absolutely incredible tasting!!

Entered into MasterCook and tested for you by Reggie & Jeff Dwork
<reggie@reggie.com>




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Cal  117.1g
Fat  1.6g
Carb  24.8g
Fib  0.7g
Pro  1.6g
Sod  99mg
CFF  12%


* Exported from MasterCook *

                            Bagel Making Tips

Recipe By     :TShea66106@aol.com
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                 *****

I've finally been able to produce bagels that are like the ones at the bagel
bakery: chewy on the outside, soft on the inside.  After much trial and
error, here's some hints I've found for making a better bagel:
1.  Most directions suggest rolling out a rope of dough then forming the
bagels by pinching together the ends.  I've found they hold their shape much
better by rolling the dough out and cutting with a doughnut cutter.  You can
re-roll the "holes" or boil and bake the holes along with the bagels (my
2-yr-old thinks the holes are great).
2.  This is probably the BEST HINT I've picked up:  After you've shaped the
bagels, place on a waxed paper-lined cookie sheet and freeze.  When frozen,
store in zip-lock bags until ready to boil and bake.  Even though they'll
look small and puny, they will puff up and rise when you bake them - I
promise!
To boil and bake:  Bring a large kettle of water to boiling; add 1 tsp. salt
(I use kosher) and 2 Tbsp. malt syrup or powder (you can find at health-food
stores or through King Arthur).  Slip several frozen bagels into the pot -
the water should be at a healthy simmer.  Cook 2 minutes on one side; then
turn over with slotted spoon and cook for 2 minutes longer.  Drain boiled
bagels on clean dish towel and immediately sprinkle with any desired topping.
It's great to freeze the bagels ahead of time, 'cause you can bake just as
many as you need.  While it's not an "instant" breakfast, with this method I
can have fresh, hot bagels on the table within an hour.  I use a recipe from
Eating Well magazine (March/Apr 1996) for Water Bagels, but any bagel recipe
will work.  Even though I have a bread machine, I usually mix up a bigger
batch of dough with my KitchenAid mixer to save time and effort.
3.  To bake bagels:  Preheat oven to 450 degrees.
A.  (Good) Bake on baking sheets lined with parchment paper, sprinkled with a
little cornmeal.  Reduce oven to 425 degrees and bake for 15 minutes.  Turn
over and bake for about 5 more minutes or until golden brown.    OR:
B. (Better) Place prepared baking sheet(s) - see above - on preheated baking
stone.  For the last 5 minutes of baking, turn the bagels over and bake on
the bare stone.



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                       Bagels: Baking (Part 7 Of 7)

Recipe By     :The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bagels                          Fatfree
                Miscellaneous & Tips

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                 *****

STEP 6: BAKE

  Place bagels on a shelf just below the middle in a preheated 400F.
  oven and bake for 20 to 25 minutes or until the tops are a nice
  golden brown.

  BAKING SURFACES:

  Bake the bagels on a baking sheet. The easiest surface available to
  most home cooks is an aluminum cookie sheet or flat Teflon-coated
  sheet pan. Coat with a little oil and sprinkle very lightly with
  yellow cornmeal to prevent bagels from sticking. Or line the pan with
  parchment paper; it eliminates the use of oil and cornmeal and
  cleaning pans.

  Bake the bagels on wooden boards (described earlier in directions).
  Place bagels on the boards bottom side up to form a crusty bottom,
  and flip them off the board after 2 or 3 minutes onto a stone or
  sheet to continue baking.

  Bake the bagels directly on a baking stone or tiles. Place the stone
  or tiles on the lowest rack. Or line a baking sheet with the tiles
  and place that on the lowest rack. Preheat the oven, with stone or
  tiles inside, to 400F. for 1 hour before baking. Sprinkle cornmeal on
  the stone or tiles. Transfer unbaked bagels to the hot surface with a
  wooden peel (a long-handled wooden paddle used in baking), or any
  flat instrument with a long handle so you don't burn yourself; wear
  heavy padded gloves.

  Do not wash or immerse stone or tiles in cold water while they are
  hot; they may crack. Soak the cooled stone or tiles in cold water and
  scrape with a spatula. Do not use soap, as the surfaces tend to
  absorb soap, which will be imparted to the bagels. Stones and tiles
  will discolor, but that won't affect their baking ability. Don't
  place a hot stone directly on your kitchen counter; depending on the
  material, the heat could leave a mark.

  Steam baking gives bagel tops a crisp crust and extra shine. Create
  steam during the first few seconds of the baking by spraying the
  sides of the preheated oven with water from a spray bottle when you
  place the bagels inside. Place a heavy pan in the lower part of the
  oven bottom while it is heating. Place the bagels in the oven and
  then pour cold water or half a dozen ice cubes into the pan.

  STORING AND USING BAGELS:

  Bagels are best when they're eaten fresh from the oven while still
  warm. Because they don't usually contain egg or milk, they tend to
  dry out faster than breads that contain these ingredients. If you
  can't consume all the bagels in a reasonably short time, freezing
  them is recommended. It's smart to slice them horizontally before
  freezing so you can toast only half at a time, if you wish.

  Thaw bagels on the kitchen counter in a plastic bag for about 15
  minutes or toast directly from the freezer. Or zap them in the
  microwave oven for about 1 minute on DEFROST and then toast them
  until lightly browned on top. Microwaving too long will make them
  tough.

  What if a few bagels get stale? Put them into your blender or food
  processor and grind them into bread crumbs. None of the tasty bread
  need ever go to waste!

The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach ISBN 1-55867-131-5
Carolyn Shaw April 1996 From: Homenet Cook

>From: "Arnold Elser" <PastryWiz@msn.com>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                      Bagels: Boiling (Part 6 Of 7)

Recipe By     :The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bagels                          Fatfree
                Miscellaneous & Tips

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                 *****

STEP 3: SECOND RISE

  During the second rising of the dough, the bagels will puff up on the
  greased baking sheet. cover them with a length of plastic wrap
  sprayed with nonstick vegetable spray or a very lightly dampened
  cloth such as a tea towel. Place them in a draft free location and
  let them rise at room temperature until puffy, about 20 minutes.

  NOTE:  Bagels can be refrigerated at this point, should you decide to
  boil and bake them later, or the next morning. Leave them covered so
  they do not dry out. Remove from the refrigerator and allow to warm
  slightly while you boil water and preheat the oven.

  The second rise can be speeded up by using the microwave. Fill a 2-cup
  microwave-safe measuring cup with water and bring the water to a boil.
  Place in a corner of the microwave. Place the baking sheet of covered
  bagels in the microwave and close the door, but so not turn on the
  microwave. The bagels should rise in a bout 6 minutes. (It won't
  matter if the sheet is metal because you don't turn on the oven.)

  Or, spray shaped tops of dough with water. Place bagels on a
  microwave-safe surface and heat in the microwave on LOW or DEFROST
  setting for 3 minutes; rest for 3 minutes. Repeat heating and resting
  until bagels are puffy.

  Proceed to Step 4: Boil or "kettle".

STEP 4: BOIL OR "KETTLE"

  Fill a 4- to 6- quart soup pot with water 3 to 4 inches deep. Water
  alone can be used, or add 2 tbs. malt syrup, honey or sugar.

  Preheat the oven to 400F., so it's ready when you're through boiling
  the bagels.

  Drop bagels one at a time into the boiling water. Boil about 4 at a
  time or only so many that they float freely and so not crowd; they
  will expand further in the hot water. The bagel may sink to the
  bottom for a few seconds, and then float to the surface. Simmer for
  30 seconds to 1 minute on each side, turning with a slotted spatula.
  Remove and put on a lightly greased rack or a lightly floured tea
  towel for a few minutes to drain.

  HINT: Put the top side of the bagel down into water first, and then
  turn over.

  When you remove them, the bagels will be top side up and slide off
  your spatula for draining and adding toppings.

  When cool enough to handle, proceed to Step 5: Glaze and Apply
  Topping, or if you omit this step, proceed to Step 6: Bake.

STEP 5, OPTIONAL: GLAZE AND APPLY TOPPING

  GLAZES: Brush tops with glaze either before placing them in the oven
  or about 5 minutes into the baking and then again about 5 minutes
  before the end of baking. I've tried all the glazes listed below on
  the same bagels in one batch, using white flour bagels and whole
  grain flour bagels. Despite claims in some cookbooks that different
  glazes yield different shades and crustiness, I found no appreciable
  difference in either color or texture of the crusts when applied to
  bagels. You may have a different result.

  Water Glaze: A spray or brushing with room-temperature tap water will
  yield a subtle glaze similar to using the steam baking method
  (described elsewhere in directions). Try brushing some bagels at the beginning of the
  baking, some 5 minutes after and some near the end, and compare the
  differences.

  Nonstick Vegetable Spray Glaze: an easy, quick, effective, low calorie
  glaze is a spray of nonstick vegetable spray. It goes on more evenly
  than using a brush, yet yields an even glaze. Spray before placing in
  the oven and again about 5 minutes before baking time is completed.

  Melted Butter or Margarine Glaze: This glaze produces the same effect
  as vegetable oil. Watch the bagels carefully so they don't burn.

  Egg Glaze #1: Mix together 1 egg white, 1 egg yolk or 1 whole egg
  with 1 tbs. water, milk, or cream.

  Egg Glaze #2: Lightly beat 1 egg white. You can brush it on the bagels
  either before they are put into the oven or 5 minutes after baking
  time has begun, and 5 minutes before the baking is finished.

  Cornstarch Glaze: Dissolve 2 tbs. cornstarch in 1/4 cup cold water.
  Bring 1 cup water to a boil and whisk the dissolved solution into the
  boiling water until it thickens. This cornstarch mixture can be kept
  in the refrigerator for several days. Brush it on the bagel tops at
  the beginning of the baking and again as soon as you remove the
  bagels from the oven for a very high shine.

  TOPPINGS: A variety of toppings can be added to the bagel before
  baking, either directly to the dough after settling, or after the
  bagel is glazed. Poppy seeds, sesame seeds, caraway seeds and coarse
  salt are easiest to use because they can be placed in a dish directly
  from the jar, and the bagel can be dipped into the dish; the seeds
  adhere to the moist dough. Or they can be sprinkled on top of the
  bagels just before baking, and pressed down lightly to adhere. I've
  seen bagels with sparse toppings and those that are covered from top
  to bottom. There's no right or wrong way.

  Add 1/2 cup finely chopped, sauteed onions to the tops of the bagels.

  Add 1/2 cup finely chopped raw onions to the tops of the bagels; they
  will cook right along with the bagels.

  Use dehydrated onion flakes or packaged onion soup that you have
  reconstituted with water, olive oil, or vegetable oil. Use 1 tbs. dry
  product to 1/2 tbs. water or oil, and soak for 2 to 3 minutes.

  Mix together 1/2 cup chopped yellow onions, 1 green onion (white part
  only), 2 tsp. olive oil, 2 tsp. poppy seeds.

  Sprinkle with garlic salt, finely chopped fresh garlic or garlic
  flakes.

  For the "Everything Bagel" (see recipe), combine 1/2 cup finely
  chopped onions, 1 clove garlic, finely chopped, and 1/4 cup sesame
  seeds. Sprinkle mixture on bagel tops before baking.

  Use ground caraway or whole caraway seeds. These are particularly
  good on rye bagels. They can be combined with the topping for the
  "everything bagel".

  Sprinkle with red pepper flakes, adjusting the "heat" to your liking.

  Top with mixed fresh herbs, including parsley, chives and dill.

  Dip into or distribute about 1/4 cup coarse salt or kosher salt on
  top of 1 batch of bagels just before baking.

  Poppy, caraway, sesame and celery seeds can be used directly from the
  jar. Just dip the bagels into a dish of seeds or sprinkle seeds on
  top.

  Toasting nuts before using them on (and in) bagels enhances their
  flavor. Walnuts, almonds, pecans or hazelnuts can be used on bagels
  as toppings and also added to the dough at the beginning or before
  they are shaped and rise the second time.

  Sprinkle with rolled oats or multigrain cereal, which will brown while
  baking.

  Proceed to Step 6: Baking

The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach ISBN 1-55867-131-5
Carolyn Shaw April 1996 From: Homenet Cook

>From: "Arnold Elser" <PastryWiz@msn.com>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                   Bagels: Bread Machine (Part 2 Of 7)

Recipe By     :The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bagels                          Bread Machine
                Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                 *****

STEP 1: MIX, KNEAD AND FIRST RISE:

The Bread Machine:

  The bread machine yields excellent results every time when you use
  fresh ingredients and follow directions. Set the machine on "dough
  cycle", and let it produce a dough with the texture of velvet and the
  stiff consistency required.

  When using a bread machine, add ingredients in the order recommended
  in your manufacturer's instructions. The recipes in this series have
  ingredients listed for machines that require adding liquids first and
  dry components last.

  Reverse the order for those that add dry ingredients first and wet
  ones last. Process on the "dough mode," or "program", or "mix bread
  cycle" or whatever it is termed by your machine's instructions. Allow
  the dough to rise through the full first rise period after the
  kneading phase, between 35 minutes and 1 hour.

  On shorter cycles, and depending on the weather and moisture of the
  ingredients, you may have to leave it in the machine for 10 or 15
  minutes longer, or until the dough fills about 2/3 of the pan. Whole
  grain flours may require up to 1 to 2 hours for the first rise. Do
  not allow the dough to bake in the machine.

  Dry ingredients such as spices, cinnamon, nutmeg and finely chopped
  nuts are added with the fours at the beginning. Wet ingredients such
  as mashed bananas, applesauce, pumpkin, grated carrots and frozen
  berries are added with the liquids, but if you add more wet
  ingredients to the recipes in this series, their liquid content must
  replace an equal amount of liquid. Adding raisins and other dried
  fruits at the beginning is not recommended; most bread machines
  pulverize them so they're hardly visible in the finished bagel.

  Check dough about 5 minutes after you have started the machine. The
  dough should form a nice round ball. If a ball doesn't form, and the
  mixture appears crumbly, add water, a tablespoon or less at a time,
  until the correct consistency is achieved. If dough looks too wet or
  formless, add flour, a tablespoon or less at a time, until the dough
  forms a ball.

  Add ingredients such as raisins, dates, chocolate chips and apple
  pieces about 5 to 8 minutes before the end of the kneading phase.
  Some machine beep to indicate the optimum time to add nuts or
  raisins. Check your manufacturers instructions for the time required
  for each process in the dough cycle. If your machine does not provide
  this timed signal, determine the length of the kneading phase and set
  a timer for 5 minutes before the end; then open the machine and
  carefully add the ingredients, being sure that they do not spill onto
  the heating elements. Ingredients can also be kneaded into the dough
  by hand after it is removed from the machine.

  NOTE: When adding reconstituted dried foods to the dough in a bread
  machine (5 to 10 minutes before the end of the kneading phase), foods
  should be blotted very dry with a paper towel so that any retained
  moisture does not change the texture of the dough and inhibit it from
  rising properly.

  A 60 minute rise period is ideal. It's ok to open the machine and
  quickly test the dough during the rise period. Gently push your
  finger into the dough, and if the dent remains, dough is ready. If
  the impression bounces back, let dough rise a few minutes longer and
  retest. Dough can become slack if allowed to rise too long. White
  flour rises highest. White flour combined with whole wheat, rye and
  oats will not rise as high. Generally, the darker the dough, the
  lower the rise and the longer it takes.

  When ready, remove dough form the pan and proceed to Shape Bagels.

The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach ISBN 1-55867-131-5
Carolyn Shaw April 1996 From: Homenet Cook

>From: "Arnold Elser" <PastryWiz@msn.com>




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                   Bagels: Food Processor (Part 3 Of 7)

Recipe By     :The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bagels                          Bread Machine
                Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                 *****

STEP 1: MIX, KNEAD AND FIRST RISE:

THE FOOD PROCESSOR

  A food processor will knead dough ingredients very quickly and
  easily. It will reduce the process to a few minutes, even cutting
  down the time of the a bread machine. Our testers found the results
  extremely reliable. One tester much preferred it to the bread machine
  because he was in charge all the way and never had a failure. By
  mixing and kneading in the food processor and allowing the dough to
  rise in the microwave, bagels can be ready for boiling in under a
  half hour. You can optionally use the microwave for the first rise
  for dough that has been mixed in the bread machine, by hand or with
  an electric mixer. Then work the flavoring ingredients into the dough
  after the first rise as you would for dough made in the bread
  machine. Either active dry yeast or fast-rising yeast can be used.

  1. Mix 1/4 of the liquid to 110-115 degrees in the microwave and add
  to the yeast and sugar in a small cup. Mix gently and let sit for 5
  minutes. Pour remaining liquid in a cup and make it very cool, right
  out of the refrigerator, or add an ice cube.

  2. Put the metal cutting blade into the food processor bowl. Measure
  flour and salt and put them into the processor bowl. Pulse tow or
  three times, just enough to mix the flour and salt. Add any oil or
  butter and pulse until it disappears, tow or three pulses.

  NOTE: Most food processors can mix 3 1/4 to 3 1/2 cups of flour.
  However, it's possible to mix a larger or double batch of dough. If
  the machine balks, it will stop automatically. Let it cool down and
  restart it. Or divide dough in half and continue processing each half
  separately. When mixed, knead the two batches together.

  3. Pour yeast mixture into flour through the feeding tube and pulse
  for another 5 or 10 seconds until it forms a ball. Pulse a few more
  times to knead. When dough appears to come away from sides, it is
  ready.

  4. Remove dough from the processor bowl and hand-knead to remove any
  gases. Let it rest for about 5 minutes. If it's not elastic enough,
  add a few more drops of water; if it's still too sticky, add a
  sprinkle of flour until it is smooth, velvety and elastic. The first
  rise can be done in a microwave oven in about 15 minutes or in a bowl
  in a draft-free environment for about 1 hour. Microwave ovens vary in
  wattage, so the rise period and settings may vary. You may have to
  experiment.

  To use a microwave oven, after the dough is kneaded, carefully remove
  it and the metal blade from the processor bowl. Form dough into a
  rectangle long enough to wrap once around the processor bowl. Grease
  dough with oil or nonstick vegetable spray, but do not cover bowl.
  (Be sure the bowl has no metal parts.) Place the bowl in the
  microwave.

  Method 1: Microwave on LOW (30%), or DEFROST (about 30%), for 1
  minute. Let rest for 10 minutes. Repeat microwaving and resting 1 to
  2 times, until the dough has doubled in size. Test with your fingers
  until a dent remains. If the dough springs back and dough has not
  doubled, microwave once more for a few minutes until a dent does
  remain and dough appears doubled in size.

  Method 2: Or, place dough in the processor bowl as instructed.
  Position an 8-ounce microwave-safe cup filled with water in the back
  corner of the microwave. cover the processor bowl lightly with a damp
  tea towel or plastic wrap and place it in the microwave on LOW (30%),
  or DEFROST (30%) setting. Heat for 3 minutes, rest for 3 minutes,
  heat for 3 minutes and rest for 6 minutes, repeating the 3-minute
  heat and the 6-minute rest once or twice if necessary, until dough
  has doubled in bulk.

  To allow dough to rise in a draft free environment, place dough in a
  large bowl lightly oiled with vegetable oil. Turn dough so all
  surfaces are greased. Cover with plastic wrap sprayed with nonstick
  vegetable spray and let rise until doubled in bulk, about 1 to 2
  hours.

  Proceed to Shape Bagels.

The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach ISBN 1-55867-131-5
Carolyn Shaw April 1996 From: Homenet Cook

>From: "Arnold Elser" <PastryWiz@msn.com>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                 Bagels: General Directions (Part 1 Of 7)

Recipe By     :The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bagels                          Bread Machine
                Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                 *****

ABOUT BAGELS -- GENERAL DIRECTIONS

  The process is simple. Initially, the boiling procedure may seem
  strange, but once you've done it, you'll wonder why you hesitated.
  Just boil a pot of water as you would for spaghetti, and boil the
  shaped bagel for about 2 minutes, turning once. Your first few bagels
  may not come out round and smooth on top, but they'll taste good
  anyway. Be patient. The second batch will look better; by the third,
  you mat think you're ready to go into business.

  Basically, these are the basic steps required to make bagels. We'll
  go into each in detail.

  1. Mix, knead and first rise: Mix flour, water, salt, sugar (or malt
  or honey) and yeast, knead them and let the dough rise for about an
  hour. Mixing and kneading can be done in a bread machine, a food
  processor, a heavy duty mixer, or by hand. this same procedure is
  used to make any yeast bread.

  2. Shape bagels: Form the dough into the traditional bagel shape by
  rolling, poking a hole in a ball or using a bagel cutter.

  3. Second rise: Allow a short rest and second rise period, about 20
  minutes.

  4. Boil or "kettle": Drop the bagels into boiling water for 1 to 3
  minutes and drain. You can bake immediately or refrigerate for 1 to
       24    hours.

  5. Glaze and apply topping: This step is not essential to the final
  product.

  6. Bake: Bake in a preheated oven for 20 to 35 minutes.

The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach ISBN 1-55867-131-5
Carolyn Shaw April 1996 From: Homenet Cook

>From: "Arnold Elser" <PastryWiz@msn.com>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                   Bagels: Mixer Or Hand (Part 4 Of 7)

Recipe By     :The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bagels                          Fatfree
                Miscellaneous & Tips

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                 *****

STEP 1: MIX, KNEAD AND FIRST RISE:

THE HEAVY DUTY MIXER WITH A DOUGH HOOK

  A heavy duty electric mixer with a dough hook will make short work of
  mixing small or large batches of dough quickly.

  Combine the warm liquid (110-115 degrees), syrup, honey or sugar, oil
  and yeast, and then add half the flour and all other dry ingredients.
  Add remaining flour until a ball forms.

  The dough hook will do part or all of the kneading, which should take
  about 5 minutes. If the dough begins to strain the machine, add more
  water so it becomes softer (check your manufacturer's directions; a
  heavy duty mixer with a dough hook should have no problem kneading).
  When dough appears near desired consistency, remove it from the bowl
  and knead in extra dough until it forms a soft ball. Follow the same
  first rise procedures as in the hand mixing or food processor
  methods. If a fast-rising yeast is used, the first rise is not
  necessary.

  Proceed to Shape Bagels.

BY HAND:

  Mix together warm water (110-115 degrees), yeast and 1 tsp. sugar and
  let stand for 5 minutes. In a large bowl, add remaining sugar, salt
  and 2 cups flour. Stir in the yeast mixture. Add remaining flour,
  stirring to form dough.

  Turn dough out onto a lightly floured board. Knead dough by hand,
  adding more flour as necessary, for 10 to 15 minutes until dough is
  smooth, shiny, stiff and elastic. Keep the board and your hands
  dusted with flour to prevent sticking.

  Knead by pushing down on the dough with the palms of your hands,
  exerting pressure from your shoulders. Lift the dough from the top
  edge, turn it a quarter turn, fold it in half, press again, turn,
  fold, press, and repeat the process until dough forms a cohesive
  ball. When the dough is no longer sticky, stretch it to help develop
  elasticity. Knead it a few more times (by now you should be about
  ready to drop dead and buy frozen Lender's <G>.) Drop it on your
  board, lift it, pick it up again and drop it again, continuing to
  stretch, drop and knead a few more times. If it becomes too stiff,
  add a few drops of water; if too sticky, add a little more flour.
  When optimally kneaded and shaped into a ball, dough will spring back
  when poked gently.

  Place dough in a lightly greased bowl. Turn dough so all surfaces are
  greased. cover with a sheet of plastic wrap sprayed with nonstick
  vegetable spray and let rise until doubled in bulk, about an hour.
  the test for proper rising, which about doubles the mass of the dough
  in size, is to poke two fingers lightly and quickly about 1/2" into
  dough. If dent stays, dough is doubled.

  Proceed to Shape Bagels

The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach ISBN 1-55867-131-5
Carolyn Shaw April 1996 From: Homenet Cook

>From: "Arnold Elser" <PastryWiz@msn.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                      Bagels: Shaping (Part 5 Of 7)

Recipe By     :The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bagels                          Bread Machine
                Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                 *****

STEP 2: SHAPE BAGELS

  Prepare baking sheets by lightly greasing them with nonstick vegetable
  spray, or oil with a little vegetable oil spread with your fingertips
  or waxed paper.

  Reach into the bread machine pan and pull dough out (if it is slightly
  sticky, dip your fingers into flour first.) Some machines punch dough
  down automatically at the end of the rise cycle, and just the act of
  removing the dough from the pan is usually adequate to remove gases,
  but you may need to punch dough down to remove any remaining air. Or,
  remove dough from bowl or food processor bowl and punch down.

  Knead dough once or twice and let it rest for 5 minutes. If the dough
  is still a little too wet and sticky, lightly flour the bread board
  or your hands and knead the dough manually, until it has a smooth,
  elastic consistency. Bagel dough should be stiff but elastic; if it's
  too stiff, sprinkle a little water on it or moisten your hands and
  knead the moisture into dough. After you've made one or two batches
  of bagels, you'll get the feeling of the ideal consistency.

  Roll and pull dough into a rectangle about 10x14" for a 1-pound
  recipe and 14x18" for a 1 1/2-pound recipe, and let it rest for 5
  minutes. Sprinkle with dried fruits, nuts, vegetables, seeds, spices,
  chocolate, or any combination of flavorings. Roll dough into a log
  and knead the ingredients into the dough for a minute or so.

  The dough should weigh a little more than the size recipe you are
  using. Divide dough into pieces depending on the size bagel you want.
  A 1 1/2-pound recipe yields 8 to 12 finished bagels, each weighing 2
  to 3 ounces, measuring about 4 inches across. Use a food scale if you
  want consistency, or measure with a ruler. Cut smaller pieces for
  mini bagels. Knead in added ingredients well before shaping each
  bagel. You can also divide dough and add different ingredients to
  each part so you get a varied batch of bagels from one recipe.

Shape using any of the following methods:

  HOLE IN THE MIDDLE METHOD: Roll each piece of dough into a ball, poke
  a floured finger through the center to form the hole, and then shape
  top and smooth sides. Moisten your finger with water, if necessary to
  smooth. Pull gently to enlarge hole. The resulting bagel is smooth
  and there is no joint.

  OR, press the round on your floured board. Using the index fingers of
  both hands, poke a hole an pull dough until the hole is large, and
  then round out the bagel and smooth the top and edges.

  THE HULA HOOP AROUND THE FINGER METHOD: Create a circle without a
  joint by flattening a ball of dough slightly into a round shape,
  folding the bottom edge under and smoothing it until it looks like a
  mushroom top. With a floured index finger, make a hole in the center
  of the circle from the bottom up. Twirl the circle around your index
  finger, or two fingers, like a hula-hoop, to widen the hole. Pull out
  and shape the round.

  THE ROPE METHOD: Roll each piece of dough into a rope by rolling it
  on the bread board or between your hands. Wrap the rope around four
  fingers, overlap and join the ends, and turn the circle inside out.
  Until you get this hand movement down pat, you may have to moisten
  the ends to hold them together. Initially the length may be lumpy and
  the joint will show. It takes practice.

  OR, roll dough into 30" lengths, cut each length into thirds (each 10"
  long) and join the ends. If you become proficient at this hand-made
  method, make 10" marks on the edge of your bread board so your bagels
  will be a consistent size.

  BAGEL CUTTER METHOD: Roll dough out to a flat shape about 1/2" thick.
  Cut with a bagel cutter and smooth the tops over the sides so they're
  rounded, using a little water on your fingers to smooth, if
  necessary. Knead scraps again, reroll and cut into as many more
  bagels as there is dough. If you don't have a bagel cutter, use a
  wide champagne glass to cut out the outside. Cut the inside hole with
  the edge of a cordial glass or the small end of a measuring jigger.
  Any leftover dough can be rolled into two strips and made into a
  bagel twist (separate recipe), sealing ends with a dab of water so
  they don't untwist while boiling and baking.

  Place shaped bagels on the greased baking sheet for the second rise,
  spacing them at least an inch apart to allow for the second rise.
  Proceed to Step 3: Second Rise.

The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach ISBN 1-55867-131-5
Carolyn Shaw April 1996 From: Homenet Cook

>From: "Arnold Elser" <PastryWiz@msn.com>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

               Beer, Sun-Dried Tomato And Olive Quick Bread

Recipe By     :October, 1993 Gourmet Magazine
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls
                Fatfree                         Hand Made
                Vegetable & Herb Breads         Yeast Free


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  3 1/2           cups  all-purpose flour
  1                tsp  salt
     1/2           tsp  baking soda
  1                tsp  double-acting baking powder
  1              large  egg -- lightly beaten
  12                oz  beer -- not dark
     1/2           cup  sun-dried tomatoes -- packed in oil
                        -- chopped and drained
                        -- reserve 1 Tbs.  of the liquid
     1/3           cup  green olives -- chopped
                        -- stuffed with pimientos

Preheat the oven to 350 F and grease and flour a loaf pan, 9 by 5 by 3 inches.
In a large bowl whisk together the flour, the salt, the baking soda and the
baking powder.  Add the egg, the beer, the tomatoes with the reserved oil, and
the olives, and stir until it is just combined.  Turn the batter into the pan
and bake the bread in the middle of the oven for 40 minutes, or until a tester
comes out clean.  Let cool on a wire rack.

To quote:  "Beer gives a yeasty flavor to this quick bread made without yeast.
Slices of the bread are good toasted or sandwiched around a filling of choice."

>From: "Darrell A. Early" <ccnysci!VTVM1.BITNET!PADDY>

>From: Patt Bromberger <patt@squid.tram.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                               Bimini Bread

Recipe By     :The Miami Herald newspaper, October 24, 1996
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     3/4           cup  Hot Water
     1/2           cup  Oats
  1 1/2      teaspoons  Molasses
  1         tablespoon  Butter -- or Vegetable Oil
     1/2      teaspoon  Salt
  1 1/2           cups  Bread Flour
  1         tablespoon  Dry Yeast

  Soak the oats, molasses and butter in the hot water for 2 minutes.
  Add to the bread machine along with the other ingredients.  Follow
  manufacturer's directions for your machine, using the cycle you'd use
  for white , sweet bread, light-to-medium setting, and the equivalent
  of 2 cups of flour.  I found in the Regal Bread Machine that I had to
  add 2 additional tablespoons of flour to get a good dough ball.

  Per Serving: 90 calories, 3 grams protein, 16 grams carbohydrate, 1
  gram fat, 15 percent calories as fat, 0.7 grams fiber, 3 milligrams
  cholesterol, 70 milligrams sodium.  Exchanges: 1.1 bread, 0.2 fat.

 >From: "Ronald L. Ploude" <banker@worldpass.net>




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                            Bread Mix Packages

Recipe By     :CHEFLZ@aol.com
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Holidays & Gifts
                Miscellaneous & Tips

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1             packet  yeast -- *
                        -- or 1 tblsp
  1           teaspoon  salt
  2        tablespoons  sugar
  3 1/4           cups  flour -- sifted

* Yeast goes first, so it'll remain on the top of the ingredient when the bag is dumped into the bread machine.

When you need to make the bread, simply put 2 tablespoons of oil with 1-1/8
cup water into the machine, then dump your mix on top. Bake according to
machine instructions.

I usually make up a dozen of these at a time. They cost about 35 cents each
as opposed to 2 or 3 dollars each in the store. They're also easy to add
herbs and seasoning to if a savory bread is needed.


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : I've found a quick and easy  way to avoid buying those expensive mixes for
bread machines. I make up the mixes myself and put them in Ziploc bags for
future use.

* Exported from MasterCook *

                              Cardamom Knots

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Fruit And Spice Breads          Hand Made


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/2           cup  butter -- (not margarine!)
     1/3           cup  sugar
  6               Tbsp  heavy cream
     3/4           tsp  ground cardamom
     1/3           tsp  salt
  3                     eggs -- room temperature
  1                     egg -- separated
                        -- (egg white not used in this recipe)
  4                cup  all-purpose flour -- or pastry
  2           packages  yeast -- quick rise
     1/4           cup  warm water
                        -- (120-130 degrees F.)
  1               Tbsp  cold water

In a saucepan, melt butter over low heat.  Add sugar and salt; stir until dissolved.  Turn off heat.  Cool slightly; add cardamom and cream.  Stir until well blended.  Set aside to cool.

In mixing bowl, add 2 c. flour and yeast.  Blend together.  Stir in butter-cardamom mixture and warm water; mix slightly, then add 3 eggs. On medium-high speed, blend for 1 minute.  With dough hook, knead for 7-10 minutes, gradually adding rest of flour in 1/2-cup increments.

Place dough in greased bowl and cover.  Set in warm, draft-free place to rise, until approximately doubled (about 1 hour).

Place dough on clean, dry work surface and punch down.  Divide into 24 pieces.  Roll each piece into a rope; tie into a little knot.  Place
each knot on an ungreased baking sheet, at least 3" apart.  Cover; let
rise in warm, draft-free spot until increased in bulk about 1/4,
approximately 30 minutes.  During last 15 minutes of rising, preheat
oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit.

  Beat egg yolk with 1 Tbsp. cold water; lightly brush each roll with
mixture.  Bake at 375 degrees 15-17 minutes, or until rolls are golden
brown on top.  Place baking sheets on wire racks to cool for
approximately 15 minutes; remove from baking sheets and finish
cooling.

NOTE:  These rolls freeze very well, and can be reheated to their
wonderful, delicate fresh flavor by warming in an oven for a few
minutes while wrapped in foil.

Prep time:  2 hrs.
Makes 24 rolls

>From: "Joan Mathew" <cmathew@iadfw.net>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                       Challa #10, Golden Egg Bread

Recipe By     :Loafin By Dak
Serving Size  : 16    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Dough Cycle                     Fatfree
                Jewish                          Sweet Breads & Cakes


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                 pk  Yeast
  3                cup  Flour
  4         tablespoon  Sugar
  2                     Eggs
  6         tablespoon  Vegetable oil
  1 1/2       teaspoon  Salt
     3/4           cup  Water -- warm

Combine all ingredients in the pan in the order listed and select white bread; push start When we make this into Challa, we remove from the breadmaker after the manual mode stops, (first rise); and then braid* and rise again; then put an egg wash over the challa.

BAKE in a 350 degree oven until a light toasty brown. We usually sprinkle on some type of seeds (sesame or poppy) after the egg wash.

* Braiding in the flat manner. The middle one goes under and over; never across.

>From: LaeBelle@aol.com




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Challah #8, Oil Free

Recipe By     :http://www.eskimo.com/~jefffree/recipes
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Holiday Breads
                Jewish

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/2           Cups  water
  2                     eggs
  1 1/2    Tablespoons  applesauce
  1 1/2      Teaspoons  salt
  3        Tablespoons  honey
  3        Tablespoons  sugar
  5               Cups  white flour
                        -- or white bread flour - omit gluten
  1 1/2    Tablespoons  gluten, wheat
  3          Teaspoons  yeast
  5              Drops  yellow food coloring -- optional
     3/4           Cup  raisins -- optional

WARNING: The amounts I have used make too much dough for my 2-lb Zoji to handle. If
you want to make a loaf in the bread machine using this exact recipe, you
will have to remove some of the dough at the end of the dough cycle (about 2
hours on my machine). I have done this and the loaf made in the machine
turned out just fine. I used the dough that I removed to make a braided loaf
which I allowed to rise for one hour after braiding and then baked in the
oven as usual. It came out tasting fine, too.

Add ingredients to ABM in order specified by model. Choose "DOUGH" cycle. Can add 3/4 cup of raisins during second kneading. If you want to cook the bread in the machine, just use the regular white/wheat cycle.

After machine completes, take out the dough and break it into three parts. Cover lightly with plastic wrap (may spray lightly with PAM to keep wrap from sticking if you want) and let dough rise for one hour. Roll out and braid dough (lightly wet ends to help them stick and fold under loaf slightly for rounded appearance). Place loaf on cookie sheet sprayed lightly with PAM, cover with plastic wrap and let rise for another hour. Brush with one egg, beaten (I use Egg Beaters. A couple of teaspoons is all it takes.) Cook in oven at 350 degrees for 25-30 minutes.

NOTES: (from original poster) Recommend using very warm water to offset the cold temperature of the egg and applesauce (which is usually in the fridge). The amounts of sugar and honey are equal; however, any amount of both or each totaling 6 Tbsp works fine. I've used this recipe to make over a dozen mini-challahs and frozen them for later use. Just make the pieces smaller. For Rosh Hashanah, make the loaf round. (meryl@onramp.net)

NOTES: (from me) I changed all the amounts from the original recipe to achieve satisfactory results. This ended up producing 3 nice loaves of challah (all three baked sideways on the same cookie sheet), one of which lasts until the next day when I have to bake three more. You don't *have* to braid the loaves, but it only takes a few minutes. This gives it a wonderful texture, making it like pull-apart rolls. You can make any size loaf you want ... or rolls or hoagie-sized buns, etc. I think the classic way is to make one large loaf using four braids and then place a smaller loaf on top of the large one.

>From: cbmcam@cyberramp.net



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : After many less than satisfactory attempts (to put it mildly) at baking loaves of low fat challah (egg bread) that resembled those I grew up eating, I was about to give up. I found a recipe in the Jewish-foods mailing list archive that *almost* worked for me. I do believe I have finally tweaked and prodded it enough that I can honestly say that this is one incredible recipe. (Kudos to the original poster.) My changes may simply have more to do with the weather, etc., than anything else; but whatever the reason, I have been asked (ordered?) to keep this bread in ready supply. I have to hide them if I want to keep them for later. :)


* Exported from MasterCook *

                      Challah #9, Bubbeh Silverman's

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Sweet Breads & Cakes


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  6               cups  flour -- (6 to 7)
  1         tablespoon  vegetable oil
     5/8         ounce  yeast -- compressed
                        -- or 1/3  2-oz yeast cake
  1                     egg -- (at room temp.)
  2               cups  warm water
  1 1/2           tsps  salt
  1                     egg yolk
  1         tablespoon  water
     1/4           cup  sugar

Put about 6 cups of flour into a large mixing bowl. Make a well. Dissolve yeast in warm water. Put all ingredients in the well. Mix. Knead dough on floured board until smooth and no longer sticky (about 10 mins.). Add flour as you knead. Put into greased bowl--turn bottom-side up so that top will be greased and not form crust in rising. Cover with a towel and put into oven over pans filled with boiling water to rise for 2 hours.

Take out bread dough from oven and punch down dough. Divide in half. Braid each half for one loaf of bread. Put into greased pans or onto greased cookie sheets. Cover and let rise in over over boiling water-filled pans for 45 mins. Dough will be well above top of pans.

Take out breads and water-filled pans from the oven, and pre-heat oven to 400 degrees. Brush mixture of egg yolk and water over breads. Put breads into oven at 400 degrees for 10 mins. Then lower oven to 350 degrees and bake for 25 mins. more.

Remove bread from pans or cookie sheets immediately and place on wire racks to cool.

>From: ltsilver@borg.com (LT Silverman)


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                               Challah #10

Recipe By     :Garrett
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Jewish


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- 1 1/2 lbs: -- - 1 lb:
  6             ounces  Water -- 4 oz
  3                     Eggs -- 2
  3        tablespoons  Applesauce -- 2
  3        tablespoons  Honey -- 2
  1 1/2      teaspoons  Salt -- 1
  3               cups  Bread flour -- 2
  1 1/2      teaspoons  Poppy seeds -- 1
  2 1/2      teaspoons  Yeast -- 1 1/2

>From: LaeBelle@aol.com


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                            Challah Bread #11

Recipe By     :Electric Bread
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Jewish
                Sweet Breads & Cakes

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/2           cup  Water
  2               cups  Bread Flour
  1         tablespoon  Sugar
  1           teaspoon  Salt
  2 1/2    tablespoons  Applesauce
  1                     egg
  1                     egg yolk
                        -- or 1 Egg Beaters
  1 1/2       teaspoon  Poppy seeds
  1 1/2       teaspoon  Yeast

1 POUND LOAF

>From: LaeBelle@aol.com





                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Cal  148.8
Fat  0.9g
Carb  29.9g
Fib  2.3g
Pro  5.7g
Sod  145mg
CFF  5.2%




* Exported from MasterCook *

                               Cheddar Rye

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Cheese & Meat Breads            Fatfree
                Low Fat                         Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     5/8           cup  buttermilk -- *
     1/2           can  water
  2 1/2            cup  bread flour
  1                cup  rye flour
  1                tsp  salt
  1 1/2     tablespoon  brown sugar
  1                cup  sharp cheddar cheese -- grated
  1               Tbsp  caraway seed
                        -- ( I use a mix of 1/2 caraway and 1/2
                        anise or fennel)
  3                tsp  yeast

regular cycle on abm.

>From: "jim n jan" <jimnjan@jadetech.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                      Chicken And Stuffing Bread #2

Recipe By     :(MODIFIED BY SYLVIA STEIGER)
Serving Size  : 16    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Cheese & Meat Breads            Fatfree
                Low Fat

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/2    tablespoon  Yeast
  2 1/4            cup  Bread flour
     1/2           cup  Whole wheat flour
  2         tablespoon  gluten, wheat
     1/2    tablespoon  Sugar
  1         tablespoon  Onions -- dried minced
     1/2    tablespoon  Salt
  1         tablespoon  Poultry seasoning
  1         tablespoon  Oil
  1                     Eggs
  1                cup  Chicken stock
                        --ADD AT BEEP--
  1                cup  Chicken -- cooked, diced
     1/2           cup  Mushrooms -- sliced

Warm broth.  Bring all ingredients to room temperature and pour (except chicken and mushrooms) into bakery, in order. Set "baking control" to medium.  Select "white bread" and push Start. Add chicken and mushrooms at beep, 88 minutes into the cycle.

Tested in DAK 1-1/2-lb R2D2.

>From: LIR119@delphi.com  (Joan,"Flour Power")


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Sylvia's comments: GREAT bread for times when you need an extremely portable  meal. As I modified it, it really tastes like chicken and stuffing! I took this on a trip to have something meal-like to feed the kids right in the car, and they loved it. Save this recipe to use up your Thanksgiving/Christmas leftovers!

* Exported from MasterCook *

                      Chocolate Chocolate Chip Cake

Recipe By     :Bread Machine Cookbook II,Donna Rathmell German
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls
                Fatfree                         Sweet Breads & Cakes
                Yeast Free

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/4           Cup  vegetable oil
                        -- (I used 2 T Lighter Bake)
     1/2           Tsp  vanilla extract
     1/2           Cup  milk
                        -- (I used vanilla flavored soy milk)
  2                     eggs
                        -- or 1/2 cup egg sub (Egg Beaters)
  1 1/2           Cups  chocolate cake mix
                        -- (approx. 1/2 box)
     1/3           Cup  chocolate chips
                        -- (on the Zoji, add at the beep)

Bake for 35 min. (**For a Zoji see directions above)

>From: adritter@legend.txdirect.net


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                               Ciabatta #3

Recipe By     :Adapted from FINE COOKING, Dec. '95
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       International Breads
                Italian                         Rave Reviews


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        SPONGE:
     1/2      Teaspoon  yeast
     2/3           Cup  water -- warm (110 F)
                        -- (filtered or bottled)
  1                Cup  BREAD flour
                        YEAST MIXTURE:
  1 1/2      Teaspoons  yeast
     1/2           Cup  water -- warm (110 F)
                        -- (filtered or bottled)
                        DOUGH:
  2               Cups  ice water
  27            Ounces  BREAD flour
                        -- (5 1/4 - 5 1/2 cups)
  1         Tablespoon  salt

NOTE: This is messy, but worth the effort. Try not to add extra flour until you've tried the recipe as is. (Additional flour will cause the texture to be more like that of French bread than of this feathery light loaf.) The dough should spring up in the oven and give you a nicely rounded bread, even though it may look flat after the second rising.

1. SPONGE: Dissolve 1/2 tsp. yeast in 2/3 cup warm water. Add 1 cup
flour and stir to
incorporate. Let rise, covered, until tripled in volume (about 4 hours).

2. YEAST MIXTURE: When the starter is ready, dissolve 1 1/2 tsp. yeast
in 1/2 cup warm water
and let stand for 10 minutes.

3. DOUGH: In the bowl of a heavy duty mixer (KitchenAid), combine
-- the YEAST MIXTURE
-- 2 cups ICE WATER
-- 1 cup SPONGE
-- 27 ounces bread flour (5 1/4 - 5 1/2 cups)
-- 1 TBL salt

Mix at speed #2 for 1 minute.

4. Add the SALT and mix for 2 minutes. Let rest 20 min. (the dough will
be very wet and will
not hold a shape).

5. After the 20 minute rest, knead at speed #6 until the dough pulls
away from the sides and
bottom of the bowl, about 12 to 15 minutes. -- If the dough first cleans
the sides of the bowl and
later starts sticking again, just keep kneading, for a minimum of 12
minutes. (You can prepare
the ingredients the day before and refrigerate overnight if you wish,
doing the kneading in step 5
the next day.)

6. Decrease speed to #4; knead another 5 or 6 minutes.

7. FIRST RISE: Transfer the dough to a large, oiled mixed bowl. Cover
with a tight-fitting lid
or plastic wrap and let rise until TRIPLED IN VOLUME, about 2 to 2 1/2
hours. (The ideal
temperature is about 75 F.)

8. SHAPING: Pour the dough onto a heavily floured work surface and cut
into two pieces. Flour
your hands. Keep the floured side of the loaf facing down and pull five
ends of the dough from
the outside edge to the center. Press these ends down and flip the dough
over. Cup the heels of
your hands around the dough and rotate, all the while pinching the dough
underneath with the
both heels of the hands to shape a taut, smooth ball.

10. SECOND RISE: Set the loaves (preferably on baking parchment) in a
cool spot, dust WELL
with flour, and cover loosely with plastic wrap. Let rise until doubled,
1 1/2 to 2 hours.

11. BAKING: Meanwhile, 20 minutes before the bread finishes rising, put
a baking stone on the
oven's lowest rack and heat the oven to 450 F. To prevent the loaves
from sticking (if not using
baking parchment) sprinkle the baking stone now with cornmeal.

12. STEAM: For a crisper crust, put 1 cup of ice cubes(or 1 cup boiling
water) in a pan on the
oven floor (or lowest rack in an electric oven) just before putting in
the bread.

13. Using a baker's peel or a baking sheet, gently transfer the loaves
to the stone, taking care not
to deflate the dough. Bake until the crust is dark brown, about 30 min.
(For a lighter colored
crust, reduce the temperature to 425 F after five minutes.)

14. Remove the finished loaves from the oven and let cool on a rack
about one hour. Freezes
well.

>From: "Jack A. Sears" <jasears@ix.netcom.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : "Light-as-Air Loaves"I

n Italian, Ciabatta (cha-BAH-tah) means "slipper" -- the finished loaves can look like old shoes.
While the appearance of the loaf is rustic, the bread itself is light and porous and the flavor is
delicately sour. The dough is extremely wet and sticky; when shaping the loaves, you must
sprinkle generous amounts of flour on everything the dough will touch. (This recipe requires a
heavy duty electric mixer such as a KitchenAid.) GUARANTEE: Everyone loves this bread.

* Exported from MasterCook *

                      Cinnamon Raisin Bread #2 <R T>

Recipe By     :The Mormon Diet Cookbook
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Fruit And Spice Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2 1/4            Tsp  Active Dry Yeast -- (1 Pkg)
  2 1/2            cup  Bread Flour
  1                cup  Whole Wheat Flour
  2               Tbsp  Sugar
  1                Tsp  Salt -- Optional
  2                Tsp  Cinnamon
  1               Tbsp  Corn Syrup
     1/4           cup  Skim Milk -- Or Skim Soy Milk
  1 1/4            cup  Warm Water
     2/3           cup  Raisins

In the order listed, put all ingredients into the pan, select white bread
and push "Start".  Or, wait and add the raisins at the "beep" in the second
mixing.  Set to "light".

Prep Time: 15 min
Serving: 1 large loaf

This is excellent!!

Entered into MasterCook and tested for you by Reggie & Jeff Dwork
<reggie@reggie.com>





                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Cal  178.9
Fat  0.7g
Carb  38.6g
Fib  2.7g
Pro  5.5g
Sod  186mg
CFF  3.6%



* Exported from MasterCook *

                               Cocoa Bread

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Sweet Breads & Cakes

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                pkg  yeast
  2 1/2            cup  flour -- (2 1/2 to 2 3/4)
  2         tablespoon  butter
  3         tablespoon  sugar
     1/4           cup  Cocoa
     1/2           tsp  cinnamon
  1                     egg
     1/2           cup  water
     1/4           cup  Milk
     1/4           cup  Coconut flakes
     1/4           cup  chopped pecans
     1/4           cup  chocolate chips

Follow manufactures directions for adding ingredients.  At beep, add the coconut
pecans, and chocolate chips.  I divided my dough into three mini loaves and
baked at 350 for 25 - 30 minutes (until the internal temperature of the bread
reached 210 degrees.  Original instructions said to preheat oven to 375 but bake at 350.  If you make one large regular size loaf bake for 35 - 40 minutes.

According to the chef on the tv, all breads should be baked to 210 degrees.
Inset the instant read probe into the center of the bread making sure not to touch
the edge of the pan.

>From: Eddy Philpott <EPhilpott@wow.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                             Cornbread, Quick

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Yeast Free

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2           packages  cornbread mix -- plus
                        other ingredients listed on the box

Set on cake cycle and test after about 50-60 min.

>From: adritter@legend.txdirect.net


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                         Country Herb Rolls <R T>

Recipe By     :BH&G, Simply Perfect Baking
Serving Size  : 24    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Vegetable & Herb Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  3 1/4            cup  All-Purpose Flour -- To 3 3/4 C
     1/2           cup  Yellow Cornmeal
  2 1/4            Tsp  Active Dry Yeast
     1/2           Tsp  Dried Basil -- Crushed
     1/2           Tsp  Dried Oregano
     3/4           cup  Skim Milk -- *Note
     1/3           cup  Icbinb-Light -- **Note
     1/4           cup  Sugar
     1/2           Tsp  Salt
     1/2           cup  Egg Beaters(r) 99% Egg Substitute -- Or Equiv To 2 Eggs
  3               Tbsp  Icbinb-Light -- Melted, ***Note

*NOTE:  Original recipe used regular milk
**NOTE:  Original recipe used regular butter or margarine
***NOTE:  Original recipe used regular butter or margarine

Combine 1 C of the flour, cornmeal, yeast, basil and oregano in a large
mixing bowl; set aside.
Heat and stir milk, the 1/3 C butter or margarine, sugar, and salt in a
saucepan just till warm (120 - 130 deg F) and butter or margarine almost
melts.  Add to flour mixture; add eggs.  Beat with an electric mixer on low
to med speed for 30 seconds, scraping bowl.  Beat on high speed for 3 min.
Stir in as much of the remaining flour as you can.

Knead dough on a lightly floured surface, kneading in enough remaining
flour to make a moderately stiff dough that is smooth and elastic (6 - 8
min total).  Shape into a ball.  Place dough in a lightly greased bowl;
turn once to grease surface. Cover and let rise in a warm place till double
(about 1 hr).

Punch dough down.  turn out onto a floured surface.  Cover and let rest for
10 min.  Shape as desired.  Place rolls 3" apart on greased baking sheets.
Cover and let rise till nearly double (about 20 min).

Brush tops of rolls with the 3 T melted butter or margarine.  Bake in a
375 deg F oven about 12 min or till golden.  Cool on a wire rack.

Makes 24

These were absolutely fabulous.

Entered into MasterCook and tested for you by Reggie & Jeff Dwork
<reggie@reggie.com>






                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Cal  103.4
Fat  2g
Carb  18g
Fib  0.3g
Pro  2.7g
Sod  87mf
CFF  17.7%



* Exported from MasterCook *

                      Cranberry And Oat Bread <R T>

Recipe By     :The Best Low-Fat, No-Sugar Bread Machine Cookbook Ever
Serving Size  : 8     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Fruit And Spice Breads
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- 1 Lb Loaf: -- (1 1/2 Lb Loaf):
  1 1/4            Tsp  Dry Yeast -- (2 1/4 Tsp)
  2                cup  Bread Flour -- (3 C)
     1/4           cup  Rolled Oats -- (1/3 C)
  2               Tbsp  Nonfat Dry Milk -- (3 T)
     1/4           cup  Wheat Bran -- (1/3 C)
  1               Tbsp  Grated Orange Peel -- (1 1/2 T)
     1/2           Tsp  Salt -- (3/4 Tsp)
     1/2           cup  Fresh Cranberries -- (3/4 C)
     3/4           cup  Water -- (1 C)

By Madge Rosenberg

Add all ingredients in the order suggested by your bread machine manual and
process on the basic bread cycle according to the manufacturer's directions.

According to book per serving:
Cal 74; Fat 0.4g; CFF 5%

This is very good.

Entered into MasterCook and tested for you by Reggie & Jeff Dwork
<reggie@reggie.com>





                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                        Creme Brulee French Toast

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Fatfree                         Hand Made
                Miscellaneous & Tips            Yeast Free


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                 qt  cream
  8                     egg yolks
  3                Tbl  vanilla -- (3 to 4)
  27             ounce  challah loaf
     3/4           cup  sugar
  2                Tbl  butter -- melted

Grease a 10-inch springform pan.  Wrap bottom and outside of pan with foil,
reserving enough foil to cover top of pan during baking.  Slice challah bread
into 1-inch thick slices. Set aside. In a large bowl or mixer, combine cream,
vanilla, sugar and egg yolks. Beat to mix well. Place 1/4 of the bread slices
into pan layering in a circular pattern. Pour egg mixture over top of bread
until bread is completely soaked.  Repeat layering and soaking process until
pan is full.  Weigh bread down with a plate anchored with a full food can,
and refrigerate 1 hour.  Remove plate and can and cover top of pan with foil,
sealing airtight.  Place pan in water bath and bake 1-1/2 hours in an oven
preheated to 325 degrees.  Remove foil, cool and refrigerate.  When fully
chilled, remove from pan, wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate until ready to
use.  Just before serving, preheat oven to 350. Cut the bread round into 7
wedges. Brush each wedge with melted butter, place on baking sheet and bake
10 minutes or until completely warmed (or warm in microwave).  Makes 7
servings.

>From: Compupups2@aol.com


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Current Scones <R T>

Recipe By     :Eating Well Secrets of Low-Fat Cooking
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Yeast Free


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2                cup  All-Purpose Flour
     1/4           cup  Light Brown Sugar
  1                Tsp  Baking Powder
  1                Tsp  Cream Of Tartar
     1/2           Tsp  Salt
     3/4           cup  Lowfat Buttermilk
     2/3           cup  Currants
  1 1/2            Tsp  Canola Oil -- *Note
  1               Tbsp  Skim Milk -- For Brushing Tops

*NOTE:  Original recipe used 1 T canola oil.

Preheat oven to 350 deg F.  Lightly oil a baking sheet or coat it with
nonstick cooking spray.  (I used a nonstick baking sheet liner.)

In a large bowl, whisk flour, brown sugar, baking powder, cream of tartar
and salt.   In another bowl, stir together buttermilk, currants and oil.
Make a well in the center of the dry ingredients and gradually stir in the
buttermilk mixture.

On a lightly floured surface, pat or roll the dough into a round about 1/2"
thick.  With a long knife, cut the round into 12 wedges and transfer to the
prepared baking sheet.   Brush the tops with milk.  Bake for 15 - 20 min,
or until golden brown.  Serve warm.

Makes 1 dozen scones.

These were extremely easy to make and tasted wonderful.

Entered into MasterCook and tested for you by Reggie & Jeff Dwork
<reggie@reggie.com>





                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Cal  123
Fat  1.1g
Carb  25.8g
Fib  0.5g
Pro  3g
Sod  138mg
CFF  7.6%



* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Curried Onion Bread

Recipe By     :Steven Raichlen's High-Flavor Low-Fat Vegetarian Cooking
Serving Size  : 24    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Vegetable & Herb Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2        tablespoons  olive oil
                        plus oil for the bowl
  2              large  onions -- thinly sliced
                        (6 cups thinly sliced)
  2               cups  cooked chickpeas
  5          teaspoons  curry powder
  1           envelope  active dry yeast
  1         tablespoon  sugar or honey
  2 1/2           cups  warm water
  2        tablespoons  honey
  4          teaspoons  sea salt
  7               cups  flour -- unbleached (7 to 8)
  1                     egg white
                        beaten for glaze
  1                     vegetable oil spray

Note:  Caramelized curried onions give this bread a rich flavor, while
chickpeas provide extra protein and a pleasing contrast in textures.  The
sponge (intermediary rising of part of the dough) gives the bread extra lift
and flavor.
1.  Heat the olive oil in a large nonstick skillet.  Cook the onions over
medium-low heat until a light golden brown, about 10 minutes, stirring
occasionally. Stir in the chickpeas and curry powder and continue sauteing
the onions until a deep golden brown, about 3 minutes.
2. Combine the yeast, sugar, and 1/4 cup warm water in a small mixing bowl
and stir to mix. Let stand for 6 to 8 minutes: It should foam like a head of
beer.
3. Prepare the sponge: Stir 2 tablespoons warm water into the yeast mixture.
Stir in 1 cup flour or enough to obtain a moist but shapable dough.  Roll
the dough into a ball and drop it into a deep bowl filled with warm water.
It will sink to the bottom. After 5 to 10 minutes, it will rise to the
surface. The sponge is now activated and ready to use.
4. Transfer the sponge to a large mixing bowl. Stir in the remaining water,
the 2 tablespoons honey, the salt, and the onion-chickpea mixture. Stir in
the flour, one cup at a time. Add flour until the dough becomes too stiff to
stir: it should be dry enough to come away from the sides of the bowl but
soft enough to knead. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work
surface. Wash the bowl and lightly oil it with spray oil.
5. Knead the dough for 6 to 8 minutes, or until smooth and elastic. If the
dough is too sticky to knead, work in a little more flour. Note: The dough
can be mixed and kneaded in a heavy-duty mixer fitted with a dough hook or a
large food processor fitted with a dough blade.
6. Return the dough to the oiled bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Place it
in a warm, draft-free spot and let it rise for 1 1/2 to 2 hours, or until
doubled in bulk.  (The dough can be allowed to rise at lower temperatures,
even in the refrigerator, but the rising time will be longer.)
7. Punch the dough down and cut in half. Pat each half into an 8-inch-long
oval. Plump the ovals in the center and drop them, seam side down, into two
9-inch loaf pans greased with spray oil.
8. Cover the loaves with dish towels and let the dough rise again until
doubled in bulk. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Brush the top of each
loaf with beaten egg white or water and, using a sharp knife or razor blade,
make a series of parallel diagonal slashes, 1/4 to 1/2 inch deep.
9. Bake the loaves for about 35 to 40 minutes, or until firm and nicely
browned. The standard test for doneness is to tap the bottom of the loaf: If
it sounds hollow, the bread is cooked. You can also test for doneness with
an instant-read thermometer: The internal temperature should be about
190degrees F.
10.  Let the breads cool for 5 minutes in the loaf pans, then turn them out
onto a cake rack. Let cool slightly or completely. (Bread piping hot out of
the oven is very hard to slice.)
                Makes 2 loaves (24 slices)
NOTE:  I used 1 tbls olive oil and 1 tbls balsamic vinegar to caramelize the
onions.

>From: Terry and Kathleen Schuller <schuller@ix.netcom.com>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                              Dill Bread #2

Recipe By     :West Bend Homestyle Bread Machine
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Vegetable & Herb Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- 1 1/2 pound loaf:
  9             ounces  Water -- 90-100 degrees F
                        -- (1 cup plus 2 tablespoons)
  3               cups  Bread Flour
  2        tablespoons  Sugar
  1 1/2      teaspoons  Salt
  1         tablespoon  Dill Weed
  1 1/2    tablespoons  Dry Milk
  2        tablespoons  Butter or Margarine
  2          teaspoons  Active Dry Yeast

Add lukewarm water to bread pan

Add dry ingredients, except yeast to pan.  Tap pan to settle ingredients,
then level ingredients, pushing some of the mixture into the corners.  Place
butter into corners of pan.

Make a well in center of dry ingredients; add yeast and lock pan into bread
maker.

Program for basic and desired crust color and start bread maker.  When done,
turn off and remove bread from pan and cool on rack before slicing.

>From: "Linda S. Fallert" <lsf@adnc.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : I am not a fan of dill but this bread is yummy and the dill is not overpowering.

* Exported from MasterCook *

                               Dilly Rolls

Recipe By     :Taste Of Home, October/November 1996 issue
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Vegetable & Herb Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2                cup  cottage cheese -- (16 ounce)
                        -- small curd
  2               tbsp  butter or margarine
  2           packages  active dry yeast -- (1/4 ounce each)
     1/2           cup  warm water
                        -- (110 to 115 degrees F)
  2                     eggs
     1/4           cup  sugar
  2        tablespoons  dried onions -- minced
  1         tablespoon  Dill Weed -- (1 to 2)
  1               tbsp  salt
     1/2           tsp  baking soda
  4 1/2            cup  all-purpose flour -- (4 1/2 to 5)

Yield: 2 dozen

In a large sauce pan over medium heat, cook cottage cheese and butter
until butter is melted. Cool to 110 to 115 degrees F. In a large mixing
bowl, dissolve yeast in water. Add eggs, sugar, onion, dill, salt, baking
soda, and cottage cheese mixture. Add 3 cups of flour; beat until smooth.
Add enough remaining flour to form a soft dough. Turn onto floured board;
knead until smooth and elastic, about 6-8 minutes. Place in a greased
bowl, turning once to grease top. Cover and let rise in a warm place
until doubled, about 1 hour. Punch dough down. Form into 24 balls; place
in a greased 13-in. x 9-in. x 2-in baking pan that has been sprayed with
non stick cooking spray. Cover and let rise until doubled, about 45
minutes.

Submitted by:Mary Bickel, Terre Haute. Indiana
>From: nmrg@juno.com (Rocky L Hurley [KR4PZ])


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                              Dough Enhancer

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 32    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  Lecithin granules
  1         tablespoon  Vitamin C powder
  1         tablespoon  Ginger -- ground

 Mix all ingredients and store in tightly closed glass jar.

Add to breadmaker in amount equal to yeast with other dry ingredients. Start machine.

Apparently, the ginger gooses the yeast and makes it act more swiftly, the ascorbic acid strengthens the gluten, and the lecithin aids the oil in causing the strands of gluten to slip against each  other more easily and thus rise better.

>From: SYLVIA STEIGER

>From: music_class@earthlink.net (Katja)


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Egg Bread #3, Basic

Recipe By     :BH&G More Bread Machine Bounty
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         White Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     2/3           cup  milk
  1                     egg
  2          teaspoons  butter or margarine
  2               cups  flour
  4          teaspoons  sugar
     1/2    tablespoon  salt
  1           teaspoon  yeast

I usually have to add 1 extra Tablespoon of flour.

>From: waltersr6@juno.com (Chrystal N Walters)



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                               Egg Bread #4

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Sweet Breads & Cakes

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- 1 1/2 lb loaf:
     2/3           cup  warm water
  1 1/2    tablespoons  vegetable oil
  2                     eggs
  3               cups  all-purpose flour
  4          teaspoons  sugar
  1 1/2            tsp  salt
  1 1/2            tsp  yeast

Add all ingredients to bread pan in order given. Use Basic Bread setting.

>From: ltsilver@borg.com (LT Silverman)


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                        Eggnog Bread, Desperation

Recipe By     :phyllis.johnpoll@ncsl.org (Phyllis Johnpoll)
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Holiday Breads
                Low Fat                         Sweet Breads & Cakes


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2 1/4            tsp  yeast
  2         tablespoon  brown sugar
  3                cup  flour
  3         tablespoon  butter or margarine
  1         tablespoon  gluten, wheat -- optional
  1 1/8            cup  eggnog -- (adj for rich nog)
  1                tsp  salt
  1                     egg
  2         tablespoon  sugar
  1                tsp  vanilla extract
                        cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, etc, to taste

(Yeah, "to taste" is a tough measurement in a recipe for the ABM, but
that's how I did it - I didn't bother measuring...)

Process on dough setting. When cycle is complete, put (plop might be a
more appropriate verb here) into a greased Bundt pan and allow to rise
until doubled in size. Preheat oven to 375, and bake 30 minutes or until
just beginning to brown.

Note: I live in Denver, so your measurements may vary due to difference
in altitude. I usually have to add additional liquid and I swear by
wheat gluten.



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : I substituted and came up with this. It's got a very lovely,
challah-like texture, and is only slightly sweet, despite the quantity
of sugar appearing in the recipe. I made this in a DAK R2D2 model ABM,
using the dough setting.

* Exported from MasterCook *

                        English Cobblestone Bread

Recipe By     :Quick & Delicious Bread Machine Recipes
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         White Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2             ounces  water -- warmed
  3             ounces  milk -- warmed
  3 1/2           Tbls  butter
     1/2           tsp  salt
  2 1/2           tbls  sugar
  2               cups  bread flour
  1                tsp  active dry yeast

Add in order listed and bake on the light cycle.
Notes:  Makes a 1lb. loaf

>From: waltersr6@juno.com (Chrystal N Walters)



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                         English Muffin Bread #2

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2               pkgs  yeast
  6               cups  flour
                        -- (5 for microwave)
  1               Tbsp  sugar
  2                tsp  salt
  2               cups  milk
     1/4           tsp  baking soda
     1/2           cup  water
                        cornmeal

Combine 3 cups flour, yeast, sugar, salt, and soda. Heat liquids until very warm (120-130 F). Add to dry mixture; beat well. Stir in rest of flour to make a stiff batter.
Spoon into 2 (non-metal if going in the microwave) loaf pans that have been greased and sprinkled with cornmeal. Cover; let rise in warm place for 45 minutes.

Bake at 400 F for 25 minutes. Remove from pans immediately and cool.

OR: microwave each loaf on High for 6 minutes 30 seconds.
Allow to rest 5 minutes before removing from pans.

Notes from original poster: The bread won't brown if you  bake it in a microwave, so don't be tempted to bake it  longer than the specified time. It's still delicious!

>From: telenet!penguin!kpearson@uunet.uu.net (Kirk Pearson)

>From: "BrownleeS" <BrownleeS@dsmo.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                         English Muffin Bread #3

Recipe By     :Meals Microwave Style-Betty Shields
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       White Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/3           cup  warm water
  1         tablespoon  yeast
  2          teaspoons  sugar
  1 1/2           cups  1% low-fat milk
  1 1/2      teaspoons  salt
     1/4      teaspoon  baking soda
  4               cups  flour
                        corn meal

Combine water with yeast and sugar. Stir until dissolved.
Warm milk to lukewarm and add to yeast mixture. Add salt.
Place 2 cups four and baking soda in a large bowl Add yeast mixture and mix
well. Add remaining flour and mix well to make a thick dough.
Lightly spray a 12 cup microwaveable tube pan. Sprinkle liberally with
cornmeal. Spoon batter into mold being careful not to disturb the cornmeal.
Cover and let rise in a warm place until about 1 inch below top of dish.
Leave covered. Elevate on a microwave rack and cook on Medium-Low(50%) for 7
1/2 mins or just until top appears dry. Let stand 10 mins. and then turn
out onto a rack.
To serve slice into thin slices and toast.

>From: Bob and Carol Floyd <c.floyd@arnprior.com>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : I usually use 1/2 whole wheat flour, and it usually use a large
glass bread pan.




* Exported from MasterCook *

                          English Muffins, Easy

Recipe By     :Pillsbury's The complete book of baking
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2                pkg  active dry yeast
  2               cups  warm water
  5               cups  all-purpose flour -- (5 to 6)
  1               tbsp  sugar
  3                tsp  salt
     1/2           cup  shortening
                        cornmeal
                        margarine or butter

In a large bowl, dissolve yeast in warm water (105 to 115 F).  Add 3 cups
flour, sugar, salt and shortening to yeast mixture, stirring by hand
until moistened.  Stir vigorously by hand until smooth.  Gradually add
remaining 2 to 3 cups flour to form a stiff dough, beating well after
each addition.  On floured surface, gently knead dough 5 to 6 times until
no longer sticky.  Roll dough to 1/4 to 3/8 inch thickness; cut with
floured 3 to 4-inch round cutter.  Sprinkle cornmeal evenly over 2
ungreased cookie sheets.  Place cut-out dough on cornmeal; sprinkle with
additional cornmeal.  Cover loosely with plastic wrap and cloth towel.
Let rise in warm place until light, about 30 to 45 minutes.  Heat griddle
to 350 degrees F.  With wide spatula, invert dough onto ungreased
griddle.  Bake 5 to 6 minutes on each side or until light golden brown;
cool.  Split in half and toast before serving.  Spread with margarine.

Yield: 18 to 26 muffins

Nutrition per serving:
calories 149; protein 3g; carbo 23g; fat 4g; sodium 250mg.

>From: Shasta Brewer <shastab@lyon.york.lib.sc.us>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                Fennel (Caraway) Currant Soda Bread <R T>

Recipe By     :The Lactose-Free Family Cookbook, Jan Main
Serving Size  : 8     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Whole Grain & Cereal Breads
                Yeast Free

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     3/4           cup  Currants
  3                cup  Whole-Wheat Flour
  1                cup  All-Purpose Flour
  2                Tsp  Baking Powder
  1                Tsp  Baking Soda
  1                Tsp  Salt
  1 1/2            cup  Water
     1/4           cup  Honey
  2                Tsp  Vegetable Oil -- *Note
  2                Tsp  Fennel Seed -- **Note
                        Granulated Sugar

*NOTE:  Original recipe used 1/4 C vegetable oil... I cut it back
**NOTE:  Original recipe used caraway seed... I changed it and used the
fennel seed

Preheat oven to 350 deg F (180 deg C).  In small bowl, soak currants in
warm water.  Grease baking sheet.

In mixing bowl, stir together whole wheat flour, all-purpose flour, baking
powder, baking soda and salt.  Drain currants and add to bowl.  Stir in
water, honey, oil and caraway seeds just until dry ingredients are moistened.

Knead with floured hands until smooth, about 1 min.  Shape into 7" circle.
Place on prepared baking sheet.  Cut large X about 1/4" deep on top;
sprinkle with sugar.

Bake for about 1 hr or until toothpicks inserted in center comes out clean.

Makes a 9" circular loaf.  Serving size is 1/8th.

Soaking currants cleans and plumps them up, making them juicier in recipes.

This has an absolutely incredible flavor!!  I don't like caraway so I
subbed the fennel and it was wonderful.

Entered into MasterCook and tested for you by Reggie & Jeff Dwork
<reggie@reggie.com>




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Cal  292.1
Fat  2.2g
Carb  63.8g
Fib  6.4g
Pro  8.4g
Sod  520mg
CFF  6.5%




* Exported from MasterCook *

                             Five Grain Bread

Recipe By     :Steven Raichlen's High-Flavor Low-Fat Vegetarian Cooking
Serving Size  : 24    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1            package  dried yeast
  1         tablespoon  honey
     1/4           cup  warm water
                        For the sponge:
  2 3/4           cups  warm water
  2        tablespoons  honey
  2        tablespoons  molasses
  2               cups  all-purpose flour
  1                cup  whole wheat flour
                        To finish the bread:
     1/2           cup  rye flour
     1/2           cup  wheat berries, cooked
     1/2           cup  cooked barley
     1/2           cup  rolled oats
  4          teaspoons  salt
  1                cup  whole wheat flour
  2               cups  white flour -- as needed
  1                     vegetable oil spray

Note:  Rustic and rich is this five-grain bread, which is loaded with
nutrients and fiber.  Feel free to substitute any cooked grains or beans for
the ones called for.   We use a sponge (intermediary rising of part of the
dough) to give the bread extra lift and flavor.
1. Combine the yeast, the honey, and the 1/4 cup warm water in a small bowl
and stir to mix. Let stand for 6 to 8 minutes: it should foam like a head of
beer.
2. Prepare the sponge. Transfer the yeast mixture to a large mixing bowl.
Stir in the 2 3/4 cups warm water, 2 tablespoons honey, 2 tablespoons
molasses, 2 cups white flour, and 1 cup whole wheat flour.  Let this mixture
sit for 1 to 2 hours, or until it bubbles and starts to rise.
3. To finish the bread, stir the rye flour, wheat berries, barley, oats,
salt, and remaining whole wheat flour and white flour into the sponge,
adding white flour until the dough becomes too stiff to stir:  It should be
dry enough to come away from the sides of the bowl, but soft enough to
knead. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface.  Wash the
bowl and lightly oil it with the spray oil.
4. Knead the dough for 6 to 8 minutes, or until smooth and elastic. If the
dough is too sticky to knead, work in a little more flour. Note: The dough
can be mixed and kneaded in a heavy-duty mixer fitted with a dough hook or a
large food processor fitted with a plastic dough blade.
5. Return the dough to the oiled bowl and cover with plastic wrap and a dish
towel. Place it in a warm, draft free spot and let rise for 1 1/2 to 2
hours, or until doubled in bulk. (The dough can be allowed to rise at lower
temperatures, even in the refrigerator, but the rising time will be longer.)
6. Punch down the dough. To make one large round loaf, oil a large
(12-inch), shallow, round-bottomed bowl. Place the dough in it. To make 2
rectangular loaves, cut the dough in half. pat each half into an 8-inch-long
oval. Plump the ovals in the center and drop them into 2 oiled 9-inch non
stick loaf pans, seam side down. Cover the loaves with dish towels and let
the dough rise again until doubled in bulk.
7. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. If making rectangular loaves, turn
them onto the loaf, invert the dough onto an oiled nonstick baking sheet. If
making rectangular loaves, leave them in the pans. Lightly sprinkle the tops
of the loaves with flour. Using a razor blade, make a series of decorative
slashes, 1/4 to 1/2 inch deep.
8. Bake the loaves for 40 to 50 minutes, or until firm and nicely browned.
(Rectangular loaves may need a little less baking time.) The standard test
for doneness is to tap the bottom of the loaf: If it
sounds hollow, the bread is cooked. You can also test for doneness with an
instant-read thermometer: The internal temperature should be about 190
degrees F.
9. Transfer the bread to a cake rack to cool. If making rectangular loaves,
turn them onto the cake rack. Let the bread(s) cool slightly or completely.
(Bread piping hot out of the oven is very hard to slice.) Cut into slices
for serving.

Makes two 9-inch loaves (24 slices)

>From: Terry and Kathleen Schuller <schuller@ix.netcom.com




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                         Food Processor Method #2

Recipe By     :music_class@earthlink.net (Katja)
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                  ****


Measure dry ingredients into bowl and whiz them for a few seconds to combine.

You *can* include the yeast but I feel more comfortable proofing it each
time in warm water (I sprinkle it into the whole amount of water warmed to
110 in the microwave .. works just fine -- 1/1/4 cups takes 1'15" in my
oven).

With the machine running I pour the liquid somewhat slowly and watch the
dough form, smiling at the miracle about to occur.  If I'm adding oil,
eggs, applesauce or some other liquid, I pour it partway through the water
so I can monitor the texture (or just add it to the water, I guess, but I'm
careful not to get it mushy from too much water, then impossible to get
out, have to knead in more flour by hand then and a pain to clean).
Basically, for most loaves, when it forms a ball, it's enough liquid.

If you're adding raisins, onions, herbs, whatever, add them now, not before
or they'll be pulverized and the color gets disgusting, to me, anyway
(Actually, unless I'm in a real hurry, I knead in messy add-ins by hand
after the first rise, before shaping .. like olives, for example).

Let it "knead" in the machine for 1 minute ... and that's it.  It literally
takes 2-3 minutes total to make the dough.

From there I put the dough in a lightly sprayed, covered bowl to rise (on a
heating pad on low), then shape into whatever I want, let rise again, and
bake.  This technique has never failed and I've not bought bread since
discovering the ease of it.  I always have 1/4 recipe bags of dough in the
freezer, etc. to make pizza, rolls, etc.  I also sometimes make the dough
late at night and let it cold rise overnight in a plastic bag in the
fridge.  The next day, the first rise is already accomplished and it saves
a lot of time.  Geez, I love playing with dough .......... ;)



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                         Friendship Bread, Nik's

Recipe By     :Leroy Nikolaisen
Serving Size  : 16    Preparation Time :1:30
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Sourdough Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  Amish Friendship Starter -- at room temperature
  3              large  eggs
     3/4           cup  vegetable oil
  1           teaspoon  vanilla extract
  2               cups  all-purpose flour
  1                cup  sugar
  5 1/8         ounces  instant vanilla pudding mix
                        (I use Jello, 5.1 oz., 6-serving size)
  1 1/4      teaspoons  baking powder
     1/2      teaspoon  baking soda
     1/2      teaspoon  salt
  2          teaspoons  ground cinnamon
  4             medium  Granny Smith apples
                        peeled, cored and chopped
                        (if the apples are large, use only 2 or 3)
  1                cup  chopped nuts -- optional
     1/2           cup  raisins, seedless

Grease 2 (8-1/2x4-1/2-inch) loaf pans. Preheat oven to 350F. In a large mixing bowl, beat together starter, eggs, oil and vanilla. In a separate bowl or Ziploc bag, combine flour, sugar, pudding mix, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon. Stir into starter mixture. Fold in apples, nuts and raisins. Transfer batter to prepared loaf pans.
Bake in preheated oven for 40 to 50 minutes, or until bread tests done. Allow bread to cool in pans 10 minutes. Remove loaves from pans and place on a wire rack to finish cooling.
Wrap loaves in plastic wrap to keep bread moist, or freeze individual slices and warm in microwave as needed. This bread tastes best the second day.
Makes 2 loaves (16 servings).

>From: Julia West <classact@i1.net>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : To make muffins from this recipe, lightly grease three 12-cup
muffin tins. Transfer the batter to the muffin tins, filling the cups
about 3/4-full. Bake at 350F for about 23 minutes, or until the muffins
test done. Let cool in pans 5 minutes. Remove muffins from pans; place
muffins on wire racks to finish cooling. Makes 36 muffins.


* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Golden Cheddar Loaf

Recipe By     :Fleischmann's Yeast web site:  www.breadworld.com
Serving Size  : 16    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Cheese & Meat Breads
                Fatfree                         Hand Made
                Low Fat

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  3 1/2           cups  all-purpose flour -- (3 1/2 to 4)
  2        tablespoons  sugar
  1            package  Yeast -- Rapid Rise
  1           teaspoon  salt
  1                cup  water
     1/3           cup  skim milk
  6             ounces  sharp cheddar cheese -- grated
  1                     egg white -- lightly beaten with
  1         tablespoon  water

Makes 1 loaf.
In large bowl, combine 1 1/2 cups flour, sugar, undissolved yeast, and salt.
Heat water and milk until very warm (120=B0 to 130=B0F); stir into dry
ingredients. Stir in enough remaining flour to make soft dough. Knead on
lightly floured surface until smooth and elastic, about 6 to 8 minutes.
Cover; let rest on floured surface 10 minutes.
Knead in cheese. Divide dough into 3 equal pieces; roll each piece to
14-inch rope. Braid ropes; pinch ends to seal. Place dough in greased 8 1/2-
x 4 1/2-inch loaf pan. Cover; let rise in warm, draft-free place until
doubled in size, about 30 to 45 minutes.
Brush loaf with egg white mixture. Bake at 375F for 30 to 35 minutes or
until done. Remove from pan; let cool on wire rack.

Nutrition information per serving (1/16 of recipe): calories 161; total fat
4 g; saturated fat 2 g; cholesterol 12 mg; sodium 219 mg; total carbohydrate
24 g; dietary fiber 1 g; protein 6 g.

NOTES:  I added 1/2 cup of finely chopped onion and 1/8 teaspoon of garlic
powder to dough before stirring in added flour.  And, I used fatfree cheese
instead of regular which cut down on the calories and total fat.

>From: Terry and Kathleen Schuller <schuller@ix.netcom.com>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                            Greek Style Bread

Recipe By     :Jane McKerriger
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Cheese & Meat Breads            Fatfree
                International Breads            Low Fat
                Vegetable & Herb Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  milk
  1         tablespoon  olive oil -- or vegetable oil
  1                tsp  salt
  3               cups  all-purpose flour
     3/4          cups  crumbled feta cheese
                        -- (I used a garlic-herb flavor)
     1/4           cup  ripe olives -- sliced
                        -- (I used Greek calamata olives)
  1         tablespoon  sugar
  2                tsp  yeast

Add ingredients to machine in order recommended by manufacturer, adding
cheese and olives with flour.  Recommended cycle: basic/white bread;
medium/normal color setting.  Bread may be more perishable because of cheese;
wrap airtight and store leftovers in refrigerator or freezer.

>From: BunnyMama@aol.com


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : It's not a high-riser, but it tastes wonderful.

* Exported from MasterCook *

                                 Grumbera

Recipe By     :Quick & Delicious BM recipes, Norman Garret
Serving Size  : 10    Preparation Time :0:15
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         White Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1         tablespoon  butter -- sweet
  4             ounces  milk -- warm
  2                     egg
  5             ounces  water -- warm
  2        tablespoons  sugar
  1 1/2      teaspoons  salt
  3               cups  bread flour
  2        tablespoons  bread flour
     1/2           cup  mashed potato flakes -- or buds
  1 1/2      teaspoons  yeast

Place ingredients in the machine in the order listed & press start.

>From: Gerry McMahon <gerrymc@erols.com



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : To warm the milk measure out the water hot, and add the milk.
To warm the eggs, place them in a small bowl filled with warm water.




* Exported from MasterCook *

                              Hawaiian Bread

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Fruit And Spice Breads
                Low Fat                         Sweet Breads & Cakes


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- 1 1/2 pound loaf:
     1/2           cup  Water
     1/2           cup  Pineapple juice
  1                     Egg
  2        tablespoons  Applesauce
  3               cups  Bread flour
  3        tablespoons  Sugar
     3/4      teaspoon  Salt
  1         tablespoon  Yeast
     3/4           cup  macadamia nuts -- chopped, or almonds
     1/2           cup  Coconut -- optional

>From: Debbie Hrabinski <piggie@worldnet.att.net>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Hawaiian Sweet Bread

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Sweet Breads & Cakes

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  3           teaspoon  Dry yeast
  5        tablespoons  Sugar
  3               cups  Bread flour
     3/4      teaspoon  Salt
  2        tablespoons  Dry milk
  2        tablespoons  potato flakes -- instant
     1/4      teaspoon  Lemon extract
     1/4      teaspoon  Vanilla extract
  2                     Eggs
  4        tablespoons  Butter
  1                cup  Warm water

>From: Debbie Hrabinski <piggie@worldnet.att.net>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Hearty Apple Rye Bread

Recipe By     :Fleischmann
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Fruit And Spice Breads
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/3            cup  Water
     1/2          Tbsp  Wonderslim -- *Note
  1                Tsp  Salt
  2 1/2            cup  Bread Flour
     3/4           cup  Rye Flour
     1/2           cup  Whole Wheat Flour
     1/2           cup  Chopped Dried Apple
  3               Tbsp  Sugar
  3               Tbsp  Cornmeal
     1/2           Tsp  Allspice
  2                Tsp  Yeast

*Note:  Original recipe called for 1 tbsp butter or margarine.

Regular cycle.

Cal  167.6
Fat        .8
CFF     4.1%

>From: Dawn Forsyth <honu@netgate.net>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                         Heidelberg Rye Bread #2

Recipe By     :Whole Foods for the Whole Family, La Leche League
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       International Breads
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2 1/4           cups  whole wheat flour
     1/4           cup  Carob powder
                        -- (I've used cocoa powder instead)
  2          teaspoons  yeast
  1         tablespoon  caraway seeds
  2               cups  water
     1/2           cup  molasses
  2         tablespoon  butter
  1           teaspoon  salt
  2 1/2           cups  rye flour

Combine whole wheat flour, carob (or cocoa) powder, yeast, and caraway.
Heat water, molasses, butter, and salt in a saucepan until very warm. Beat
into flour mixture until smooth. Add enough rye flour to make a slightly
stiff dough. Knead about 10 minutes, adding more rye flour if needed.

Cover and let rest 20 minutes

Divide in half and shape into 2 round loaves about 6" across. Place on
greased cookie sheet and slash tops with sharp knife or razor blade. Brush
with oil and let rise until doubled, about 1 hour.

Bake at 350 degrees for 45 to 50 minutes or until loaves sound hollow when
tapped.

>From: judi@abs.net (Judi Hammett)


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : I love this recipe.

* Exported from MasterCook *

                              Herb Bread #4

Recipe By     :Quick & Delicious BM recipes, Norman Garret
Serving Size  : 10    Preparation Time :0:15
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Vegetable & Herb Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/2    tablespoons  butter
  2             ounces  milk -- warm
  7             ounces  water -- warm
  1 1/2    tablespoons  sugar
  1           teaspoon  salt
  3               cups  bread flour
  3        tablespoons  chives -- dried
  3        tablespoons  parsley -- dried
  1         tablespoon  dill weed
  1 1/2      teaspoons  yeast

Place ingredients in the machine in the order listed & press start.

>From: Gerry McMahon <gerrymc@erols.com




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : To warm the milk measure out the water hot, and add the milk.





* Exported from MasterCook *

                               Honey Butter

Recipe By     :kcoombes@eagle.wbm.ca (Ken/Shirley Coombes)
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Fatfree                         Hand Made
                Miscellaneous & Tips            Yeast Free


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     3/4           cup  Butter or Margarine
     3/4           cup  Honey
     3/4           cup  Powdered Sugar
  1                tsp  Cinnamon

Mix or blend together and store in refrigerator.




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                         Honey Wheat Berry Bread

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1         tablespoon  dry yeast -- (1 packet)
  1                cup  milk -- warmed to110F
                        -- all or part milk or other liquid -- (1 to 1 1/4)
  1              pinch  sugar -- or bit of the honey
  2         tablespoon  oil
                        -- (I don't always use that much)
     1/4           cup  honey
  2               cups  bread flour
  1                cup  whole wheat flour
  1           teaspoon  salt
  1         tablespoon  gluten, wheat -- (optional) (1 to 2)
     1/4           cup  wheat berries
                        -- (brought to a boil-soaked off stove
                        -- for 1 hour, drained)

Mix, knead, rise twice and bake the dough in whatever way you're used to,
kneading in wheat berries after dough forms a ball, if using a food
processor (okay to do in machine at that point .. for the kneading part,
not mixing -- want them whole, not chopped up .. like adding raisins later
in abm, for example).

Bake at 375 F for about 30 minutes (to internal temperature of
approximately 210 F).

>From: music_class@earthlink.net (Katja)



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : For my taste, this is great toasted.  I also like it for sandwiches,
though.  I haven't tried rolls yet ... we'll see.

* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Honey Wheat Bread #3

Recipe By     :Electric Bread
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- Large Loaf: -- - Regular Loaf:
  1 1/8            cup  Water -- 3/4 cup
  2 1/2           cups  White Bread Flour -- 1 1/2 cups
     1/2           cup  Whole Wheat flour -- 1/2 cup
  1 1/2           Tbsp  Dry Milk -- 1 Tbsp.
  1 1/2           Tbsp  Honey -- 1 Tbsp.
  1 1/2            tsp  Salt -- 1 tsp.
  2               Tbsp  Butter -- 1 Tbsp.
  2                tsp  Yeast -- 1 tsp.
                        -- (Fast Rise)
                        -- OR 3 tsp.Yeast (Active Dry) -- 1-1/2 tsp.

This recipe can be made with the regular, rapid, or delayed time bake cycles.

>From: kcoombes@eagle.wbm.ca (Ken/Shirley Coombes)


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                            Hot Cross Buns #5

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Dough Cycle
                Fatfree                         Holiday Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                pkg  Active dry yeast
  3               cups  Bread flour
     1/4           cup  Sugar
     3/4                tea -- Salt
     1/2           cup  warm milk
     1/2           cup  warm water
  2        Tablespoons  lard -- or butter
  1                     Egg yolk -- (reserve the white)
  1                Tbl  Cinnamon
  1                     tea -- Nutmeg
  1                cup  Candied fruit.

Dump everything except the fruit into the machine.  Select Manual or dough
setting and press go.  Add the fruit about 10 or 15 minutes later or it
will disappear.

When the dough is ready.  Pat out into a 12x9 rectangle and then break off
into 12 pieces the size of a small orange.  You should have 12 little
balls, place into the greased 13x9 pan cover and let rise in a warm place
until double in volume (about 45 min)

Take the reserved egg white and add 1 tea of water and mix well.  Brush the
rolls and put into the oven and bake at 375, for 20-25 minutes until light
golden brown color.

Take whats left of the egg white/water mixture and add 1/2 tsp of Vanilla and
some confectioners sugar till its thick.  Place in a small plastic bag and
make your white crosses on the buns (after they have cooled)

>From: "Gordon" <gordon@mpsnet.com.mx>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Italian Easter Braid

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Holiday Breads
                Italian                         Low Fat
                Sweet Breads & Cakes

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1            package  yeast
     1/4           cup  water
     3/4           cup  milk -- scalded
  1            package  lemon pudding mix
     1/2           cup  sugar
     1/4           cup  butter or margarine -- melted
  2          teaspoons  vanilla
     1/2      teaspoon  salt
  1           teaspoon  lemon extract
  4               cups  flour -- (4 to 4 1/2)
  3                     eggs -- beaten
  1                     egg -- beaten with:
  1         tablespoon  water

Proof yeast in water. Pour milk over pudding, lemon flavoring, vanilla,
sugar, butter, and salt. Stir until pudding dissolves and cools to lukewarm. Add 1 1/2 c. flour, mix well. Add yeast and 3 eggs. Gradually add remaining flour. Turn onto floured surface and let rest 10 mins. Knead 8-10 mins. Place in lightly greased bowl and turn once. Let rise until double, approx. 1 1/2 hrs. Punch down and let rise again, about 1 hour. Braid dough. For egg baskets, make a small braid with about 1 inch in diameter strands. Form into a circle about 4-6 inches in diameter, put a dyed, hardboiled egg in the middle. Put a rope of dough across the top like a handle. Brush with egg wash and sprinkle with non pareils. Bake at 350 for 30 mins.


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                       Italian Garlic Pepper Bread

Recipe By     :Mike McGee in Palatine
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Italian
                Vegetable & Herb Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/3           cups  Water
  1 1/4      teaspoons  Salt
  1           teaspoon  Sugar
  3               cups  Bread flour
  2 1/2      teaspoons  Yeast
     1/2      teaspoon  Garlic powder -- (or to taste)
     1/2      teaspoon  Very  coarsely ground pepper
                        (or to taste)
     1/2           cup  Parmesan cheese -- UP TO 1 C
                        cut in 1/2 inch squares.

Add the final three ingredients ans late as possible in the final kneading
stage.  The bread is better if the islands of cheese are identifiable and if
the pepper does not get GROUND into the dough by the kneading process.

I enjoyed this bread at an Italian restaurant, so I tried to match it as
close as I could.  Used the basic recipe for Italian bread in "The Bread
Machine Cookbook" (#1) and added the garlic and pepper.

Good luck.  Hope this works out for you.  Please let me know of your
improvements on this very basic recipe.

Formatted by Elaine Radis BGMB90B; APRIL '93

>From: LaeBelle@aol.com




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                     Italian Sourdough Bread, Bill's

Recipe By     :Bill Hatcher <bhatcher@gc.net>
Serving Size  : 8     Preparation Time :2:30
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         International Breads
                Sourdough Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  sourdough starter
     3/4           cup  warm water*
  2        tablespoons  oil
  2          teaspoons  salt
  3 1/4           cups  bread flour*
  2 1/4      teaspoons  yeast

Place ingredients in bread machine pan in order given.

Use the "Bread Rapid" or whatever the setting is called on your machine for
reduced cooking time.

*May need to be adjusted, depending on consistency of your sourdough
starter.  Dough should ball and just pull away from sides of pan during
kneading.




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                         Jelly Bean Confetti Cake

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Holiday Breads
                Sweet Breads & Cakes            Yeast Free


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2               Cups  All-purpose flour
     3/4           Cup  Miniature jelly beans -- cut In Half
                        -- (not licorice)
  1                Cup  Sugar
  1                Cup  Butter or margarine
                        Softened
  8             Ounces  cream cheese
                        Softened
  1           Teaspoon  Vanilla
  3                     Eggs
  1 1/2      Teaspoons  Baking powder
     1/4      Teaspoon  Salt
                        Confectioners' sugar

 Heat oven to 325 degrees.  Generously grease and flour 12 cup fluted tube pan or angel cake pan.  Lightly spoon flour into measuring cup.  Level off.  In small  bowl toss jelly beans with 2 tablespoons of the flour. Set a side.  In large bowl, beat sugar, butter, cream
cheese and vanilla until well blended.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Add remaining flour, baking powder and salt. Blend well. Spoon 1 cup of batter evenly over bottom of prepared pan. Stir jelly beans into remaining batter.    Spoon into baking pan. Bake in a 325 degree oven for 50-60 minutes, or until toothpick inserted in center of cake comes out clean. Cool upright in pan 10 minute s. Invert on serving plate. Cool completely. Sprinkle with confectioner s' sugar.

>From: LIR119@delphi.com (Joan,"Flour Power")




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                            Light Wheat Bread

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  4                cup  bread flour
  2                cup  whole-wheat flour
  2         tablespoon  gluten flour
     1/2           cup  powdered milk
     1/2           cup  instant potato flakes -- optional
  2         tablespoon  sugar
  1               Tbsp  firmly packed brown sugar
  1         tablespoon  salt
     1/2           tsp  ground ginger
                        ---
  2               Tbsp  butter -- chilled and cut
                        into pieces
                        -- or use soft shortening
  2               Tbsp  active dry yeast -- (I use rapid-rise)
  2 1/4            cup  lukewarm water
  3         tablespoon  unsalted butter

(for KitchenAid)

Yield:  2 standard-sized loaves (using loaf pans)

With standard mixing attachment, thoroughly combine all dry
ingredients except yeast into large mixing bowl.  Add butter (or
shortening) and combine.  Add yeast and combine thoroughly.  Add water
and mix only until dough starts to form a ball and mixer begins to
labor a bit -- approximately 10-20 seconds.

Attach dough hook to mixer and knead dough for approximately 7-9
minutes.  Remove dough to greased glass container; cover loosely with
tea towel or plastic wrap. Set in a warm, draft-free location until
doubled in bulk; punch down.  Repeat.

Punch down dough; divide into two equal-sized pieces.  Form into
loaves and place in lightly greased (I use Pam cooking spray) loaf
pans.  Cover loosely with tea towel or plastic wrap; place in warm,
draft-free location until dough reaches the top of the loaf pans.

Preheat oven to 500F while dough is rising in loaf pans.

Turn heat down to 375 (or 325 if using convection); immediately
uncover loaves and place into oven for 25 minutes.  Remove loaves from
pans and place back into oven, baking for approximately 20 additional
minutes, or until crusts are nicely browned and loaves test done.
Remove to cooling racks.  As soon as loaves are removed from oven,
melt butter over low heat and brush lightly over crusts for softer
crust.

Allow loaves to cool for at least 60 minutes before slicing.  If
freezing loaves for later use, cool thoroughly (about 2 hours).

This recipe yields an extremely fluffy, airy loaf with a very pleasant
texture which is perfect for making toast and sandwiches.

>From: "Joan Mathew" <cmathew@iadfw.net>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                             Maple Pecan Loaf

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Nut & Seed Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     3/4           cup  water
     1/2           cup  pure maple syrup
                        -- or Karo syrup with 1 tsp. maple
                        flavoring
  2        tablespoons  unsalted butter -- or canola oil
  2 1/2           cups  unbleached all-purpose flour
  1                cup  uncooked oatmeal -- (not instant)
     1/4      teaspoon  salt to taste -- (1/4 to 1)
  1 1/2      teaspoons  active dry yeast
     1/2           cup  pecan halves -- (1/2 to 3/4)

Pour everything except pecan halves into bread machine in order
suggested by manufacturer and bake on FULL CYCLE.  Don't use short
cycle.  Put pecan halves in at raisin/nut beep.

I used the Karo syrup with maple flavoring and the bread is really
great.

>From: Bobbi Novicky <Cleome@ix.netcom.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : I've received so many terrific recipes from this list, I thought I'd
offer a new one I just discovered. It makes just wonderful toast
slathered with apple or pumpkin butter....


* Exported from MasterCook *

                     Muffin Baking Hints, Magnificent

Recipe By     :Magnificent Muffins Cookbook
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Miscellaneous & Tips
                Yeast Free

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                 *****

  Baking a magnificent muffin is quick and easy.  All you need is some
  basic equipment and an understanding of how to prepare your batter.

  The basis of muffin baking is to create a DRY and a MOIST mixture in
  separate bowls.  They are then combined quickly with a minimum amount
  of stirring.  You want to moisten the dry mixture, but still have a
  lumpy batter.  The batter should then be put immediately into the
  muffin tins and baked with careful attention to the required oven
  temperature.

  Here are a few quick tips for baking a magnificent muffin:

  Remember that there is a very real difference between 'All-Purpose
  Flour' and 'Cake and Pastry Flour'. Be sure to use the type specified
  for the recipe.

  Even if you buy pre-sifted flour, you will get better results by
  sifting and then measuring.

  DO NOT OVERMIX you batter or the result will be a tough muffin with
  poor texture.

  When combining the moist and dry mixtures, always make a well in the
  dry and pour the moist into the well.  Stir the two until combined,
  but still lumpy.

  Prepare the cups by greasing lightly.  If you have non stick, no
  greasing is necessary.

  ALWAYS preheat your oven.

  If you have muffin cups that do not have batter in them, fill them
  half way with water while the tray is in the oven. This will make
  sure that the muffins will bake evenly.

  Always test your muffins for doneness.  A muffin should not be spongy
  on the top but should be spring to firm.  A Toothpick inserted in the
  center of the muffin should come out clean if it is completely baked.

  Baked muffins should be cooled briefly in the muffin tins and then
  removed to racks.

  If you are planning on FREEZING, be sure they are completely cooled
  to room temperature before you wrap then in foil and freeze them.

 >From: Paradise Manifest <Ausetkmt@Cris.Com>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Multigrain Bread #2

Recipe By     :Fleischmann
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/3            cup  Water
  2               Tbsp  Honey
     1/2          Tbsp  Wonderslim -- *Note
  1                Tsp  Salt
  2                cup  Bread Flour
     3/4           cup  Whole Wheat Flour
     1/3           cup  Rolled Oats -- Toasted
  3               Tbsp  Nonfat Dry Milk
  3               Tbsp  Cornmeal
  3               Tbsp  Toasted Wheat Germ
  2                Tsp  Yeast

*Note:  Original recipe called for 1 tbsp butter or margarine.

To toast the rolled oats, spread a thin layer in a shallow baking pan.  Bake
@ 350 degrees F for 10 - 15 minutes, stirring often.  May toast extra and
freeze.

Regular cycle.

Cal  151
Fat       .9
CFF    5.5%

>From: Dawn Forsyth <honu@netgate.net



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                         Nice Spice Dog Biscuits

Recipe By     :Gourmet Dog Biscuits: A Cookbook of Tasty Treats . . .
Serving Size  : 48    Preparation Time :6:30
Categories    : Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/2           cups  unbleached all-purpose flour
  1 1/2           cups  whole-wheat flour
     1/2           cup  cornmeal
  2        tablespoons  nonfat dry milk powder
  1           teaspoon  ground cinnamon
  1           teaspoon  ground nutmeg
  1 1/2      teaspoons  ground allspice
  1                     egg -- slightly beaten
  1                cup  water
                        (use 1 to 1-1/4 cups water)

   Stir together flours, cornmeal, dry milk powder, cinnamon, nutmeg and
allspice in a large bowl. Add egg, then begin adding water gradually,
stirring with a wooden spoon. Add just enough water to produce a very
stiff dough. If you add too much water and dough is no longer stiff, add
a little more flour. Knead the dough with your hands to create a smooth
texture.
   Preheat oven to 350F. Roll out dough 1/4 inch thick. (It helps if
the top and bottom of the dough are lightly floured.) Use a cookie
cutter to cut out biscuits. Place biscuits about 1/2 inch apart on
lightly greased cookie sheets.
   Bake for about 45 minutes to 1 hour. The biscuits should be lightly
browned and should not be moist inside. Turn off oven and leave biscuits
inside without opening oven door for 5 hours, or overnight, to let them
harden. Store in an airtight container.
   Yield: About 4 dozen (3-by-1-inch) biscuits.

This recipe appeared in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch on Dec. 14, 1996.
The recipe is from "Gourmet Dog Biscuits: A Cookbook of Tasty Treats for
Your Favorite Fido" by Carole Horstmeyer. According to the article, the
book is available at Borders Books and Music in Sunset Hills, MO, at
Dora-Bunny's Boutique in St. Charles, MO, and at Cornucopia, and
Whiskers and Wags in Kirkwood, MO. To order from the author, send $9.90
($7.95 plus $1.95 postage and handling) to: Gourmet Dog Biscuits Book,
c/o Crafts and Cre-"ate"-tions, P.O. Box 25434, St. Louis, MO  63125.

>From: Julia West <classact@i1.net>




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Oatmeal Molasses Bread

Recipe By     :Fleischmann
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  Water -- Plus 2 T
  2               Tbsp  Molasses
     1/2          Tbsp  Wonderslim -- *Note
  1                Tsp  Salt
  2                cup  Whole Wheat Flour
  1                cup  Bread Flour
     1/3           cup  Rolled Oats -- Toasted
  3               Tbsp  Nonfat Dry Milk
  2                Tsp  Yeast

*Note:  Original recipe called for 1 tbsp butter or margarine.

To toast rolled oats, spread in a thin layer in a shallow baking pan.  Bake
@ 350 degrees F for 10 - 15 minutes, stirring often.  May toast extra and
freeze.

Regular cycle.

Cal  135.9
Fat        .7
CFF     4.8%

>From: Dawn Forsyth <honu@netgate.net



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                              Olive Bread #2

Recipe By     :The Middle East Cookbook, Tess Hope
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       International Breads
                Low Fat                         Vegetable & Herb Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- 1 quantity dough -- (see below)
                        -- or frozen bread dough
  1                     onion -- finely chopped
  1         tablespoon  olive oil
  1                cup  black olives
                        Dough:
  3               cups  flour
  1            package  dry yeast
     1/2           cup  warm water
     1/2           cup  milk -- warmed
                        -- or substitute more warm water
  1           teaspoon  salt
  2           teaspoon  sugar
  2        tablespoons  oil

Make dough up through the first rising.  While rising, fry the onion in
oil until transparent.  Half the olives and remove the seeds.  Combine
onion and olive and allow to cool.  Punch down dough and press out to
rectangle 1/2 inch thick.  Spread the onion and olive mixture over the
dough, leaving the sides clear.

Roll dough along the long side, keeping the roll firm.  Shape into loaf,
press ends to seal.  Place on greased baking sheet, slash top of loaf
and allow to double in size.

Bake at 375F for 35-40 minutes.

To make dough:

Dissolve yeast in water.  Add milk, sugar and one cup of flour.  Beat
thoroughly and leave until frothy.  (should take 15-30 minutes depending
on how warm the kitchen is.)

Now add the salt, oil, and another cup of flour.  Stir in flour and
start adding the rest of the flour until the dough is no longer sticky.
Knead until the dough is satiny to the touch.

Shape into ball.  Oil bowl, place dough in bowl, and then turn dough
over (so that the oily side is up).  Cover and allow to double in bulk.

>From: Patt Bromberger <patt@squid.tram.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                              Olive Bread #3

Recipe By     :Gourmet Mag., April 1986
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls
                Fatfree                         Hand Made
                Vegetable & Herb Breads         Yeast Free


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  5                tsp  active dry yeast -- (two 1/4 oz pkgs)
     1/2           tsp  sugar
     1/4           cup  olive oil
  1 1/2            tsp  salt
  1                tsp  dried rosemary -- crumbled
                        -- or twice amount of fresh
  1 1/2           cups  whole wheat flour
  5               cups  all-purpose flour -- or more
     1/2         pound  drained kalamata -- pitted and chopped
                        -- or other black brine-cured olives

In a large bowl proof the yeast in 1/3 cup lukewarm water with
the sugar for 15 min. or until foamy, and stir in 1 2/3 cups lukewarm
water, 3 t. of the oil, the salt and rosemary.  Add the whole-wheat
flour and 4 cups of the all-purpose flour and combine the dough well.
Knead the dough on a well floured surface, incorporating more of the
remaining flour as necessary to keep it from sticking, for 8 to
10 minutes, or until it is smooth and elastic.  (or use kneading hooks
on mixer).  Knead the olives into the bread, distributing them evenly.
Put the dough in a lightly oiled large bowl, turn it to coat it with
the oil and lit it rise, covered in a warm place for 1 hour, or until
it is double in bulk.  Punch down the dough, form it into a ball, and
put it in a well buttered 10' springform pan, 3" deep, pressing it
to the bottom.  Let the dough rise, covered in a warm place for
45 to 55 minutes, or until it is double bulk, and bake the
bread in a preheated 350 degree oven for 40 to 45 minutes, or until
it sounds hollow when the bottom is tapped.  Let the bread cool
in the pan for 10 minutes, remove it from the pan, and brush the
top with remaining 1 t. oil.  Makes 1 loaf.

>From: Hpouncy1@cc.swarthmore.edu

>From: Patt Bromberger <patt@squid.tram.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                              Olive Bread #4

Recipe By     :Electric Bread
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Vegetable & Herb Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     3/4           cup  Warm Water -- 1/2 cup
  3 1/2           cups  White bread flour -- 2-1/3 cups
  2               Tbsp  Dry milk -- 1 Tbsp.
  1               Tbsp  Sugar -- 1/2 Tbsp.
  1 1/4            tsp  Salt -- 3/4 tsp.
  2               Tbsp  Olive oil -- 1 Tbsp.
     1/2           cup  Green olives -- 1/4 cup
                        -- (whole stuffed)
     3/4           cup  Black olives -- /2 cup
                        -- (whole pitted)
     1/4           cup  Blue cheese -- 3 Tbsp.
                        -- (crumbled)
  1 1/2            tsp  Yeast -- Rapid Rise, 1 tsp.
                        -- OR 2 tsp. active dry Yeast -- 1-1/2 tsp.

Drain olives well in a colander, then shake well to remove any excess liquid.

Pitted and stuffed olives can be added whole. Kneading will break them into pieces.

Can be made with regular or rapid bake cycles.

Less than 12 cups - Regular loaf
12 to 16 cups - Large loaf
More than 16 cups - Double Regular

Nutritional information per serving: Cal. 194; Chol. 3
mg.; Sod. 409 mg.; Prot. 13%; Carb. 65%; Fat 22%

>From: "BrownleeS" <BrownleeS@dsmo.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                            Olive Bread Palio

Recipe By     :The Middle East Cookbook, Tess Hope
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       International Breads
                Vegetable & Herb Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2 1/2      teaspoons  active dry yeast
  4               cups  unbleached all-purpose flour
     1/3           cup  pureed Kalamata -- (about 30)
                        -- or other brine-cured black olives
     1/3           cup  white wine
  3        Tablespoons  olive oil
                        -- preferably extra-virgin
     1/4      teaspoon  white pepper
     3/4      teaspoon  salt

In a small bowl proof the yeast in 1/2 cup lukewarm water with 1/2 cup of
the flour for 30 minutes.  In a bowl combine the wine, the olive puree, the
oil, the salt, the white pepper, and 1/4 cup water, stir in the yeast
mixture and 2 to 2-1/2 cups of the remaining flour, and combine the dough
well.  Knead the dough on a well floured surface, incorporating more of the
remaining flour as necessary to keep it from sticking, for 15 minutes.  Put
the dough in a well buttered bowl, turn it to coat it with the butter and
let it rise, covered with plastic wrap, in a warm place for 1 hour, or
until it is double in bulk.  Punch down the dough, form it into an oval,
about 8 inches long, and put it on a well buttered baking sheet.  Score the
top of the bread diagonally with a sharp knife at 1 inch intervals and let
the bread rise in a warm place for 30 to 40 minutes, or until it is  almost
double in bulk.  Bake the bread in a preheated 375 degree oven for 35 to 45
minutes, or until it is golden and sounds hollow when tapped, transfer it
to a rack, and let it cool.   Makes 1 loaf.

>From: Patt Bromberger <patt@squid.tram.com>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                              Olive Focaccia

Recipe By     :cewvb@ilap.com
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                  ****

Use a firmer dough than the one used for the Rustic Bread (See recipe).  Do not use
Yeast. Only a large amount of starter.  Mix well.  Add some water if
necessary.  The dough should reach a 75-78 F temperature.  The dough should
be sticky but not wet. Process 5 more minutes. Add fresh thyme, chopped
Moroccan olives and Kalamata olives. Let is rest for 5-10 minutes. Finish
kneading by hand, on floured board.  Gather the dough, rolling edges
underneath again and again until the ball is smooth and rounded. Let it sit
2-3 hours, covered with plastic, in slightly oiled bowl. Dough is ready when
it does not spring back (See above) When volume has doubled, refrigerate
overnight. the following day,m let temperature reach 72-74 F. Indent top of
loaf with a knife. Bake for 45 minutes according to Rustic Bread
instructions above.




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                               Pan Coating

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/4            cup  shortening
     1/4           cup  salad oil
     1/4           cup  flour

Store in refrigerator and use to grease baking pans.

>From: Lobo119@worldnet.att.net


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                                Pan Rolls

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2               Tbsp  active dry yeast
                        -- (I use rapid-rise)
     1/2           Cup  sugar
  1                  T  salt
     1/2           Tsp  ground ginger
  2        Tablespoons  gluten, wheat
  3               Cups  whole-wheat flour
  2               Cups  bread flour
                        ---
     1/2           Cup  vegetable oil
  1                     egg
  1 3/4           Cups  warm water
                        ---
  3        Tablespoons  unsalted butter

Yield:  12-16 rolls

Place yeast, sugar, salt, ginger, gluten flour, and 3 cups whole-wheat
flour in mixing bowl.  With flat beater, blend ingredients.  Add
water, egg, and vegetable oil.  On medium speed, mix for 2-1/2
minutes, or until dough forms rubbery strings between bowl and flat
beater.

Attach dough hook; knead for approximately 8-9 minutes, adding rest of
flour in 1/2-cup increments, until dough is no longer sticky and forms
a ball around dough hook.

Remove dough to greased glass container; cover loosely with tea towel
or plastic wrap.  Set in a warm, draft-free location until doubled in
bulk; punch down.  Repeat for a second rise.

Preheat oven to 400F.

Turn dough out onto a floured surface; punch down.  Shape into 12-16
rolls, placing in pan about 1/2-inch apart.  Cover with wax paper,
then light tea towel or plastic wrap.  Let rise in a warm place until
doubled in size.

Turn heat down to 375 (or 325 if using convection); bake for 15-20
minutes, or until rolls are lightly browned on top.  As soon as rolls
are removed from oven, melt butter over low heat and brush lightly
over rolls for softer crust.

Allow rolls to cool for approximately 20 minutes before serving.  If
freezing rolls for later use, cool thoroughly (about 2 hours).

>From: "Joan Mathew" <cmathew@iadfw.net>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                             Pasca (Or Babka)

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Holiday Breads
                Low Fat                         Sweet Breads & Cakes


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2           packages  yeast
     1/2           cup  water
  3               cups  flour
  1               pint  milk -- lukewarm
  1              pinch  sugar
                        ---
  1                cup  sugar -- (1 to 1 1/2)
  4                     eggs
  1           teaspoon  salt
     1/2           cup  butter -- melted and cooled
                        ---
  8               cups  flour -- Approx.
  1           teaspoon  cinnamon
     1/2      teaspoon  nutmeg
     1/2           cup  raisins -- (1/2 to 1)

Mix first ingredients together and let sit for 10 mins.

Beat eggs and sugar, add salt and butter.  Combine with yeast mixture.

Add spices and mix in flour gradually. Knead 1/2 hr. Add raisins and
knead them in. Let rise, punch down and let rise again. Put in loaf pans and brush tops with egg wash of 1 beaten egg and 1 T. water. Bake at 375 for 35-40 mins. Makes 3 loaves.

>From: MJADLOS@VM.STLAWU.EDU


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                            Peach Bread <R T>

Recipe By     :Home Cooking, Jan 1997
Serving Size  : 8     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls
                Fatfree                         Fruit And Spice Breads
                Hand Made

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2                cup  Flour
     2/3           cup  Sugar
  2                Tsp  Baking Powder
     1/2           Tsp  Salt
     1/2           Tsp  Baking Soda
     1/4           Tsp  Ground Cloves
     1/2           cup  Egg Beaters(r) 99% Egg Substitute -- *Note
  2               Tbsp  Icbinb-Light -- Melted,**Note
  16                Oz  Sliced Peaches -- Canned, Drain, Chop,
                        Reserve Juice
     1/2           cup  Confectioner's Sugar
  4                Tsp  Peach Juice -- From The Reserved

*NOTE:  Original recipe used 2 regular eggs
**NOTE:  Original recipe used regular margarine

Grease and flour a 9 x 5" pan.  Preheat oven to 350 deg F.  Mix first 6
ingredients; add eggs and melted margarine.  Fold in chopped peaches; mix
for about 2 min at med speed of electric mixer.

Pour batter into pan and bake for approx 1 hr, testing for doneness.  Cool
completely.

Make glaze by blending confectioner's sugar and 4 tsp reserved peach juice.
 Pour over cooled loaf.

Serves 8 - 10

This was very good!!

Entered into MasterCook and tested for you by Reggie & Jeff Dwork
<reggie@reggie.com>




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Cal  252.8
Fat  1.6g
Carb  55.5g
Fib  1.2g
Pro  4.5g
Sod  348mg
CFF  5.8%



* Exported from MasterCook *

                      Peanut Butter And Jelly Muffin

Recipe By     :Magnificent Muffins Cookbook
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Nut & Seed Breads
                Yeast Free

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -----DRY MIXTURE-----
  2               cups  Flour, all-purpose
     1/2           cup  Sugar
  2 1/2      teaspoons  Baking powder
     1/2      teaspoon  Salt
     1/2           cup  Peanut butter, chunky
  2         tablespoon  Butter
                        -----MOIST MIXTURE-----
  2              large  Eggs
  1                cup  Buttermilk
                        -----TOPPING-----
     1/3           cup  unsalted peanuts -- toasted
     1/4           cup  jelly -- any fruit

  Preheat oven to 400F and prepare 12 muffin cups. Sift first 4
  ingredients of dry mixture together. With a pastry blender cut peanut
  butter and butter into dry mixture until mixture resembles coarse
  crumbs. In a medium bowl beat eggs lightly and stir in buttermilk.
  Add egg milk-mixture to coarse crumbs mixture and stir just until
  ingredients are blended. Fill 12 prepared muffin cups 2/3 full. Bake
  20-25 minutes in preheated oven. While muffins are cooking melt the
  jelly and finely chop the peanuts. As soon as muffins are removed
  from the oven brush the tops with melted jelly and dip the tops into
  the chopped peanuts.

  HINT:  We suggest using the jelly that is your family's sandwich
  favorite. These muffins make a great hit at children's parties.

 >From: Paradise Manifest <Ausetkmt@Cris.Com>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Peanut Butter Bread #2

Recipe By     :Betty Crocker's Bread Machine Cookbook
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Nut & Seed Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- 1 lb: -- 1 1/2 lb:
     2/3           cup  water -- (1 c. + 1 Tbls.)
     1/4           cup  peanut butter -- (1/2 c.)
  2                cup  bread flour -- (3 c.)
  2               Tbls  packed brown sugar -- (3 Tbls)
     3/4           tsp  salt -- (1 tsp.)
  1 1/4            tsp  active dry yeast -- (2 tsp.)


Measure carefully and  place ingredients in you ABM
in the order recommended by the manufacturer of your machine.
Select Sweet or Basic/White cycle.

>From: Judy Moreth <VWMOREJ@vw.cc.va.us>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Peanut Butter Bread #3

Recipe By     :Electric Bread
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Nut & Seed Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/4           cups  Water
  1 1/2           cups  Whole Wheat flour
  1 1/2           cups  Bread flour
     1/4           cup  Brown sugar
     1/2           tsp  Salt
     1/2           cup  Peanut Butter -- (creamy or crunchy)
  2 1/4            tsp  Active dry yeast
  2         tablespoon  gluten, wheat -- (2 to 3)

Put all ingredients in pan according to manufacturer's instructions.

Note:  Since I have well water at my house, I always add lemon juice to the
water.

>From: Penchard@aol.com

This is wonderful toasted!


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Peanut Butter Bread #4

Recipe By     :Fleischmann
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Nut & Seed Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  Skim Milk -- Plus 2 T *Note
     1/2           cup  Creamy Peanut Butter
     1/4           cup  Egg Substitute -- **Note
  1                Tsp  Salt
  2 1/3            cup  Bread Flour
     2/3           cup  Whole Wheat Flour
  2               Tbsp  Sugar
  2                Tsp  Yeast

*Note:  Original recipe used regular milk.
**Note:  Original recipe used 1 lg egg.

Do not use reduced fat or natural peanut butter.

Regular cycle.

Cal  202
Fat      6
CFF   26%

>From: Dawn Forsyth <honu@netgate.net



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Peanut Butter Twists

Recipe By     :Bake-it-Easy Yeast book, Fleischmann's
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Fatfree                         Hand Made


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/2           cup  milk
  2                     eggs
     1/2           cup  sugar
  4 1/2            cup  unsifted flour -- (4 1/2 to 5)
  1 1/2            tsp  salt
     3/4           cup  peanut butter
     1/4           cup  margarine
     3/4           cup  peach preserves -- or jam
     1/2           cup  warm water
  6         tablespoon  margarine -- softened
  2               pkgs  active dry yeast

Makes 40

Scald milk; stir in sugar, salt & 1/4 C margarine. Cool to lukewarm.
Measure warm water into large bowl. Proof yeast; stir till dissolved.
Add lukewarm milk mixture, eggs & 3 C flour. Beat till smooth. Add
enough additional flour to make a stiff dough. Turn out on to lightly
floured board; knead till smooth & elastic, about 8-10 mins. Place in
greased bowl, turning to grease top. Cover; let rise in warm place, free
from draft, until doubled in bulk, about 1 hr.

Mean while, prepare filling. Combine peanut butter, peach jam & 6 tbs of
softened margarine.

Punch dough down; divide in half. Roll each half into a 12x15
rectangle.Cut each rectangle into twenty 3 inch squares. Place about 2
tsp. filling in center of each square. Overlap 2 opposite corners; seal
tightly. Place on greased baking sheets. Let rise, uncovered, till
double in bulk, about 1 hr.

Bake at 375 F about 15 mins or till done. Remove from baking sheets &
cool on wire racks.

>From: BARBARA J KAYE <bk55238@juno.com>

>From: "Karen D. Gouvin" <ao774@osfn.org>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                              Pizza Dough #4

Recipe By     :California Pizza Kitchen Cookbook
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Fatfree
                Low Fat                         Pizza And Calzones


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                tsp  yeast
     1/2           cup  warm water -- plus:
  1         tablespoon  warm water
  1 1/2           cups  bread flour
  2                tsp  sugar
  1                tsp  salt
  1         tablespoon  extra virgin olive oil
                        -- plus one tsp. for coating
                        Tomato Sauce
  1         tablespoon  extra virgin olive oil
  2                tsp  fresh garlic -- minced
  2                     roma tomatoes -- diced 1/2 inch
                        -- (about 1 cup)
  1           teaspoon  fresh oregano -- chopped
                        -- (or 1/2 tsp. dried)
  1         tablespoon  fresh basil -- chopped
                        -- (or 1/2 Tbs. dried)
     1/2           tsp  salt
  1              Pinch  freshly ground black pepper
  1         tablespoon  tomato paste



Put the ingredients in your bread maker in the order recommended by the =
manufacturer and use the dough cycle if you have one.  If you don't have =
a dough cycle, allow the bread machine to mix the dough well and then =
lightly oil the dough ball and the interior of a 1 quart glass bowl.  =
Place the dough ball in the bowl and seal the bowl with clear food wrap; =
seal air tight.  Set aside at room temperature to rise until double in =
bulk; about 11/2 to 2 hours.. The dough could be used at this point but =
it will not be that wonderful, chewy, flavorful dough that it will later =
become.  Punch down the dough, re-form a nice round ball and return it =
to the same bowl; cover again with the clear food wrap.  Place the bowl =
in the refrigerator overnight, covered air tight.  About 2 hours before =
you are ready to assemble your pizza, remove the dough from the =
refrigerator.  Use a sharp knife to divide the dough into 2 equal =
portions.  Roll the smaller doughs into round balls on a smooth, clean =
surface; be sure to seal any holes by pinching or rolling.  Place the =
newly formed dough balls in a glass casserole dish, spaced far enough =
apart to allow for each to double in size.  Seal the top of the dish air =
tight with clear food wrap.  Set aside at room temp until the dough =
balls have doubled in size (about 2 hours) they should be smooth and =
puffy.


To make the Sauce:
Cook the garlic in olive oil over medium heat, stirring, for 1 to 2 =
minutes.  Add the remainder of the sauce ingredients except tomato =
paste; reduce heat and cook, stirring frequently until the tomato juices =
evaporate, about 10 minutes.  Stir in tomato paste and cook for two =
minutes.  Remove from heat.=20

>From: Nadler <nadler@airmail.net>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                             Poppy Seed Cake

Recipe By     :Bread Machine Cookbook II, Donna Rathmell German
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Sweet Breads & Cakes            Yeast Free


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     3/4           Cup  milk
                        -- or soy milk
  2                     eggs -- or equivalent
     1/2           Cup  vegetable oil
                        -- (I used 1/4 cup Lighter Bake)
  1                Tsp  butter flavoring
  1                Tsp  almond extract
  1                Tsp  vanilla extract
  1         Tablespoon  poppy seeds
  1                Cup  sugar
  1 1/2           Cups  self-rising flour
                        -- OR 1 1/2  cups all purpose flour
                        -- AND 2 1/4  tsp baking powder &
     3/4           Tsp  salt

Bake for 50 min. (**For a Zoji see directions above)

>From: adritter@legend.txdirect.net


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Pumpernickel Bread #2

Recipe By     :Fleischmann's Yeast  www.breadworld.com
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  Water -- 3/4 cup
                        -- (70 to 80 degrees F)
  2        tablespoons  Dark molasses -- 1 tablespoon
  1         tablespoon  Vegetable oil -- 1 tablespoon
  4          teaspoons  white vinegar -- 1 tablespoon
  2        tablespoons  Packed brown sugar -- 4 teaspoons
  2 1/4      teaspoons  Unsweetened cocoa -- 1 1/2 teaspoons
  2 1/4      teaspoons  Instant coffee granules -- 1 1/2 teaspoons
  1 1/2      teaspoons  dried onions -- 1 teaspoon
                        -- SPICE ISLANDS
  1 1/2      teaspoons  caraway seed -- 1 teaspoon
                        -- SPICE ISLANDS
  1           teaspoon  Salt -- 3/4 teaspoon
  2               cups  Bread flour -- 1 1/2 cups
  1 1/2           cups  rye flour -- 1 cup
                        -- Medium
  2          teaspoons  active dry yeast -- 1 1/2 teaspoons
                        -- FLEISCHMANN'S Bread Machine Yeast

Makes 1 loaf.Do not make loaves longer than recommended by manufacturer. Use the 1-pound recipe if your bread machine pan holds 10 cups or less of water.


 Measure all ingredients into bread machine pan in the order suggested by manufacturer.

Process on basic/white bread cycle; use medium/normal crust color setting. Remove bread from pan; cool on wire rack.

>From: bgl@leass.PCC.COM (Barbara Leass)


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Pumpkin Oatmeal Bread

Recipe By     :Bread Machine Cookbook II,Donna Rathmell German
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls
                Fatfree                         Yeast Free


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/3           cup  vegetable oil
                        -- (I substituted 2 1/2 T Lighter Bake)
  1                cup  pumpkin puree
  2                     eggs
                        -- or 1/2 cup egg substitute
     3/4           cup  brown sugar
     1/8           tsp  nutmeg
     1/4           tsp  cloves
  1 1/2            tsp  cinnamon
     3/4           cup  oats
  1 1/4           cups  self-rising flour
                        -- (already includes baking powder and
                        salt)
                        -- OR  1 1/4  cups all purpose flour &
                        -- and 2 tsp  baking powder
     1/2           tsp  salt

Place all ingredients in the baking pan and set on cake cycle.  Bake for 40
minutes.**

** According to German, the Zojirushi is preprogrammed to turn off when the
cake/quick bread is completely baked.  However, my Zoji manual says to check
at about 50-60 minutes of baking and every 5 to 10 minutes thereafter.
(Total baking time on the cake cycle in the Zoji can be as long as 85 min.)

>From: adritter@legend.txdirect.net



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                            Quarry Tile Bread

Recipe By     :Lobo119@worldnet.att.net
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Sourdough Breads
                Yeast Free

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2               cups  expanded sourdough
  1           teaspoon  salt
  1           teaspoon  sugar
     1/4           cup  water
                        -- (it's odd because of my conversion
                        formula)
  1         tablespoon  olive oil
  1 1/3           cups  flour -- (1 1/3 to 2)
                        -- (enough to make a soft dough ... should
                        feel like a baby's bottom)

Makes 1 round loaf or 2 loaf pan loaves

Bake on cornmeal dusted, unglazed tile or a pizza stone on the bottom rack
of oven to make it nice and crusty.  Or put it in bread pans; it'll work
either way.

Mix everything together.  Knead bread.  Let rise until it's doubled.  Punch
out bubbles and form loaf; let rise until it's doubled.  Preheat oven and
quarry tiles for 20 minutes at 425 degrees.  Bake 30 minutes, painting with
salt water every 10 minutes (I didn't do this painting business and still
got a chewy crust - Lobo).

For baking on the tiles, I lined a small Corning dish (1.5 quart) with a
dish towel and let the bread rise in it.  I took it out by lifting it out by
the towel, transferred it to one hand and quickly put it on the stone right
side up.



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                             Roman Army Bread

Recipe By     :Doves Farm
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Wheat-Free Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  500                g  Doves Farm Spelt flour -- (1 lb)
  1                tsp  salt
  3               tbsp  olive oil
  15                 g  fresh yeast
  400               ml  warm water -- (35-40C)
  1                tsp  honey

1. Place the flour in large mixing bowl.

2. Blend the yeast and honey into half the water and roughly mix into
the flour

3. Dissolve the salt in the remaining warm water and add to the
flour.  Also add the oil.

4. Mix the soft dough vigorously for four minutes using a wooden spoon.

5. Grease a large baking tray and dust with flour.  Turn out the
dough in one piece onto the baking tray and dust with flour.

6. Leave to rise in a warm place for 20-30 minutes until the dough
has risen to about twice its size.

7. Cook in an oven pre-heated to 180C, 370F for 35 minutes.  A fully
cooked loaf will sound hollow underneath.

8. Cool loaf on a wire rack.

>From: Donald Adaway <don.adaway@zetnet.co.uk>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : "Spelt grain (Triticum Spelta) is an ancient
precursor of modern wheat varieties.  It was once widely grown from
Europe to Asia until it fell from popularity".

* Exported from MasterCook *

                        Rosemary Bread, Wheat-Free

Recipe By     :Susan Chapin <schapin@mitre.org>
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Wheat-Free Breads
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- Mix together and let cool:
     1/2           cup  Amaranth grain
  1 1/4            cup  Water -- boiling
  1         tablespoon  Rosemary
                        -- Combine dry ingredients-mix well-
                        -- Bring to room temperature in microwave:
     1/2           cup  Gluten
     3/4           cup  Amaranth flour
  1                cup  Kamut flour
     1/2           cup  Oat flakes
  1         tablespoon  Whey
                        -- Add water mixture to Zo bread pan along
                        with:
  1         tablespoon  Barley malt syrup
  1         tablespoon  Canola Oil
     1/2           tsp  Lecithin
  1 1/4            tsp  Salt
  500       milligrams  Ascorbic acid
                        -- (I crushed one Vitamin C tablet)
                        -- Add flour mixture to Zo pan - Then:
  1 3/4            tsp  SAF yeast

I invented a new recipe yesterday in my Zo and it was *wonderful* except
that it had a bitter taste that I could sense only at the very back sides
of my tongue.

If you try this recipe, (even with the bitter aftertaste it was terrific!)
you will need to monitor the knead and adjust the water/flour ratio.


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                         Rosemary Olive Bread #2

Recipe By     :(from Geneva, Switzerland!!)
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Low Fat
                Vegetable & Herb Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/3            tsp  yeast
     2/3           cup  water
     2/3           cup  milk
                        -- (I used Skim)
  1 1/3    tablespoons  sugar
     1/3           cup  cornmeal
  2        tablespoons  butter or margarine
     2/3           cup  minced onion
                        -- (I used reconstituted dried)
  1 1/3    tablespoons  dry sherry
  1                cup  olives -- pitted and chopped
                        -- (I used Calmata-unchopped)
     2/3    tablespoon  pepper
  1 1/3           cups  whole wheat flour
  2               cups  bread flour -- (2 to 2 1/4)

I set machine on medium
use you machine's directions(ingred. order)

>From: CHEFLZ@aol.com


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                               Rustic Bread

Recipe By     :cewvb@ilap.com
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                  ****

Follow flour and water quantities recommended for bread.  Add 2-3 cups of
starter, activated yeast and some olive oil.  Mix and let rise for 2 hours
in greased bowl.
When the volume has doubled, knead on floured board until soft and moist.
Let is rise some more, covered with plastic.  Dough temperature should reach
75 to 78 F. It is ready when a hole punched with one finger stays without
springing back.
Form a well rounded ball. Sprinkle waxed paper with some flour and fine
cornmeal. Flatten the ball and place it on top of waxed paper. Indent the
top with fingers.
Preheat oven at 500 F for 10 minutes.  It is best to use a ceramic cooking
board.  Spray some water in the oven and place bread immediately in it.
Spray water every 10 minutes.
Turn bread loaf on the other side after 15 minutes. Remove waxed paper.
Bread should be ready in 40 minutes (total baking time).  The loaf is ready
when sound is hollow.



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Rye Bread #7, Basic

Recipe By     :Fleischmann
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  Water -- Plus 2 T
  2               Tbsp  Light Molasses
     1/2          Tbsp  Wonderslim -- *Note
  1                Tsp  Salt
  2 1/2            cup  Bread Flour
  2                cup  Rye Flour
  2               Tbsp  Packed Brown Sugar
  1               Tbsp  Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
     3/4           Tsp  Caraway Seed
  2                Tsp  Yeast

*Note:  Original recipe calls for 1 tbsp butter or margarine.

Regular cycle.

Cal  184
Fat        . 9
CFF     4.3%

>From: Dawn Forsyth <honu@netgate.net>




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                 Semolina Bread With Dried Cherries <R T>

Recipe By     :The Best Low-Fat, No-Sugar Bread Machine Cookbook Ever
Serving Size  : 8     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- 1 Lb Loaf: -- (1 1/2 Lb Loaf):
  1 1/4            Tsp  Active Dry Yeast -- (2 Tsp)
  1 1/4            cup  Bread Flour -- (1 3/4C + 2T)
  1                cup  Semolina Flour -- (1 1/2 C)
  2               Tbsp  Nonfat Dry Milk -- (3 T)
     1/2           Tsp  Salt -- (3/4 Tsp)
  1               Tbsp  Apple Butter -- (1 1/2 T),*Note
     3/4           cup  Water -- Plus
  2               Tbsp  Water -- (1 1/4 C)
     1/2           cup  Dried Cherries -- **Note, (3/4 C)

by Madge Rosenberg

Semolina flour gives this bread a rustic texture and golden color.  Dried
cherries make it both tart and sweet.

*NOTE:  Use no sugar added apple butter
**NOTE:  I used dried cranberries.

Add all ingredients except the dried cherries in the order suggested by your
bread machine manual and process on the basic bread cycle according to the
manufacturer's directions.

Add the cherries at the beeper or at the end of the first kneading in
machines with out a beeper to signal addition of fruit and nuts.

According to book:
Cal 91; Fat 0.3g; Chole 0.1mg; CFF 3%



Entered into MasterCook and tested for you by Reggie & Jeff Dwork
<reggie@reggie.com>





                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : This was very good. I used dried cranberries instead of the cherries.

Cal  169.6
Fat  0.7g
Carb  34.1g
Fib  1.6g
Pro  6.2g
Sod  145mg
CFF  3.6%




* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Sicilian Bread <R T>

Recipe By     :The Best Low-Fat, No-Sugar Bread Machine Cookbook Ever
Serving Size  : 8     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Italian


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- 1 Lb Loaf: -- (1 1/2 Lb Loaf):
  1 1/2      teaspoons  Active Dry Yeast -- (2 1/4 Tsp)
  1 3/4            cup  Bread Flour -- (2 2/3 C)
     1/2           cup  Whole-Wheat Flour -- (3/4 C)
     1/8           Tsp  Black Pepper -- (1/4 Tsp)
  2               Tbsp  Capers -- (3 T)
  1               Tbsp  Red Wine Vinegar -- (1 1/2 T)
     1/2           Tsp  Salt -- (3/4 Tsp)
  2               Tbsp  Raisins -- Or Currants (3 T)
  2               Tbsp  Chopped Sun-Dried Tomatoes -- *Note, (3 T)
     3/4           cup  Water -- (1 C + 2 T)

*NOTE: Not oil packed tomatoes.  Pour boiling water over the sun-dried
tomatoes halves.  Soak 10 minutes, drain, and cool to room temp.  With a
scissors, snip into 1/4" pieces.  Do not use tomatoes that are reconstituted
and packed in oil for this recipe.

Add all ingredients in the order suggested by your bread machine manual and
process on the basic bread cycle according to the manufacturer's directions.

This is wonderful!

Entered into MasterCook and tested for you by Reggie & Jeff Dwork
<reggie@reggie.com>




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Cal  145.4
Fat  0.7g
Carb  29.9g
Fib  2.1g
Pro  5.1g
Sod  173mg
CFF  4.3%


* Exported from MasterCook *

                  Sourdough Bread, How To (Part 1 Of 2)

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Miscellaneous & Tips            Sourdough Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                 *****

 HOW TO BAKE A LOAF OF SOURDOUGH BREAD

"Lets face it, this is baking, not microbiology, rocket science, or voodoo!
We all do it because it's fun and challenging.  No one who owns a computer
is baking their own bread because they have to."  Buddy

       This is a short, simple "how to" for sourdough newbies.  The FAQs are
terrific and full of information (over 50 pages, in fact).  This can be
overwhelming to those who have barely baked a loaf of yeast bread.  I hate
to see people get discouraged and give up on sourdough and hope this will
prevent that.
************************************************************************
                                                            INDEX
GLOSSARY
GET A STARTER
STARTER RECIPE
BAKE BREAD
KNEADING, RISING, EXPANDING AND DOUBLING
YEAST IN THE BREAD RECIPE?
EXPAND SOURDOUGH  BY FEEDING SOURDOUGH STARTER
BAKE BREAD
SUGAR?
HOW LONG CAN YOU FORGET STARTER IN THE REFRIGERATOR
DRYING STARTER
RESTORING DRIED STARTER
ADDING STUFF TO BREAD
BAKING STONES
OTHER INTERNET SOURCES OF INFORMATION
************************************************************************
GLOSSARY
         To give you a hand with terms in the long FAQs, here are various
meanings and definitions which a couple people were considerate enough to
send to me.  Thanks to Jeff Renner and Bob Batts.

>From "Breads From The La Brea Bakery" by Nancy Silverton:
FERMENTING:  before dough is shaped
PROOFING:  after dough is shaped
RETARDED:  dough placed in refrigerator or cold environment to slow proofing

>From "Alaska Magazine's Cabin Cookbook":
STARTER: "what's in the refrigerator"
SPONGE:  starter mixed with flour and water

>From "Sourdough Jack's Cookery":
'BATTER,' 'STARTER,' AND 'SPONGE':  the stage "before ingredients other than
flour and water are added."  The three terms are used interchangeably.
SPONGE:  "a thicker dough in preparation for making bread"
BATTER:  dough in preparation for making pancakes (thinner than "sponge")

Bob Batts sent this helpful paragraph:  "I think that on this group
(rec.food.sourdough) ..., we most often called what we keep from batch to
batch the starter or culture, the next stage the sponge.  We have often used
the terms building or doubling rather than expanding, although you can
certainly triple or quadruple an active sponge."

I use the following terms:
SOURDOUGH STARTER:  the flour and water mixture I keep in the refrigerator
EXPANDED SOURDOUGH:  The night before I bake bread, I take the starter out
of the refrigerator and add flour and water to it.  It sits overnight and
expands.  In the morning, it's bubbly and lively-looking.  It does look like
a sponge, but that's something you clean the bathtub with!  Anyway, part of
this goes into your bread dough and some ALWAYS goes back into the refrigerator.
DOUGH:  Expanded sourdough plus other recipe ingredients such as sugar,
butter, oat bran, the roaches that fell into the expanding sourdough the
night before, etc.
BREAD:  baked dough
************************************************************************
GET A STARTER
         A starter can be started from scratch, received wet or dry from a
friend, or purchased.
         If you can't get one from someone and don't want to buy one, a
simple recipe follows.  Yes, it has yeast and sugar . . . that's ok.
         If you want to stay "pure," someone who I asked to critique this
document suggested reading Nancy Silverton's "The La Brea Bakery."  He said,
"She has a very involved recipe for making a starter and is death on any
type of commercial yeast in a starter (she uses grapes in her starter for
natural fermentation)."
         I'm trying to keep this simple and I'd suggest the newbie get a few
loaves under their belt the easy way first.
************************************************************************

BAKE BREAD
         Once your starter is established, the basic steps are:
         1.  remove starter from refrigerator and feed it flour and water
         2.  let starter sit overnight and expand
         3.  remove the amount of starter needed for the bread recipe (NEVER
all of it)
         4.  return what remains (and some always must) of the expanded
starter to refrigerator
         5.  mix a bread recipe
         6.  bake bread
         7.  eat bread
         8. return to step 1 when bread is gone : )

         Try a one-loaf recipe first.  If it doesn't rise, add yeast.  But
if the starter is bubbling, it should rise.
         Find any sourdough recipe and use the required amount of expanded
starter.  Don't use all the starter!  Be sure you keep some of it to expand
the next time you want to bake.
************************************************************************
KNEADING, RISING, EXPANDING AND DOUBLING
         Knead your dough until it feels like a baby's bottom.  If you don't
know what that feels like, I'm so sorry.  (This would be a freshly bathed,
dry baby.)
         Doubling refers to the increase in volume of the bread recipe
(dough).  Completely mix the recipe.  Let it double in size, then shape it
into loaves.  Let the loaves double in size before you bake them.
         NOTE WELL:  Sourdough bread dough will not rise as quickly as yeast
bread doughs.  Give it as much as four hours.  Rising time will vary
depending on the weather, humidity, how often you bake, the temperature of
your house, etc.
         On a cold day, or if your house is cool, speed the rising process
for both starter and dough by letting it rise in the oven.  Turn the oven to
200 degrees for 2 minutes; turn it off; check the temperature and make sure
it's not higher than 100 degrees; put the starter or dough in the oven (in a
bowl that won't burn, covered with aluminum foil, in case someone comes
along and turns the oven on without looking in the oven).  Turning on the
oven light can also warm the oven enough to get the stuff rising well.  Use
a huge bowl if you try this with your expanding starter.  You don't want a
mess in your oven from overflow!
         Postings to this newsgroup have stated that a long rise will
increase the sour taste of your bread.
         Cover dough rising on the counter with a dish towel to prevent the
crust from drying out.


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                 Sourdough Bread, How To #2 (Part 2 Of 2)

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Miscellaneous & Tips            Sourdough Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                 *****

************************************************************************

YEAST IN THE BREAD RECIPE?
         I've been asked  "If I just 'cheat' and use commercial yeast in my
recipe, will my bread taste ok?"  Yes, it will.
************************************************************************
EXPAND SOURDOUGH by FEEDING THE STARTER
         The night before you want to bake:
         To all the starter which is in the jar in the refrigerator, add 3
parts flour and 2 parts water ... e.g. 3 c. flour and 2 c. water.  It should
be the consistency of muffin batter. Use a big bowl.  When feeding/expanding
the starter, it sometimes triples and quadruples in size.  Cover the bowl
with a dish towel (unless you're putting it in the oven, as noted in
"RISING" above . . . then use aluminum foil).
         If my starter is threatening to overflow the capacity of the jar
because I've expanded it far beyond the requirements of my recipes, I feed
it less, e.g., 1 c. flour and 2/3 c. water.
         If I'm going to bake a lot, I add more (e.g. 4 c. flour and 2 2/3
c. water).  (YES!  Math teachers are vindicated . . . you will use algebra
in your actual life! The equation is  X cups of flour are to 3 as Y cups of
water are to 2.)
         If it's convenient (you DON'T need to get out of bed at 3 a.m. to
do this), occasionally fan the expanding starter with the towel and stir it
vigorously to mix in airborne yeasts and whatever.
         The next morning, it is expanded and you can make the recipe.
************************************************************************
BAKE BREAD
         From the expanded starter, remove the amount called for in the
bread recipe and mix up your bread.  HEED WELL:  Always keep some of the
expanded sourdough and put it back in the refrigerator.  You have to have
something to "feed" the next time you want to bake.  I like to have at least
1/2 cup; one tablespoon is probably the minimum.  This is the only sourdough
thing about which I am compulsive.  Once you've got a good starter going, it
only gets better.
         My starter often continues to expand in a two-quart jar in the
refrigerator.  Use a big jar until you know what yours will do.
************************************************************************
SUGAR?
         I added sugar to expand my starter for 24 years before I read the
FAQs and learned I didn't need it.  It never hurt it.
************************************************************************
HOW LONG CAN YOU FORGET THE STARTER IN THE REFRIGERATOR?
         That depends.
         I got my starter in Cheyenne, Wyoming, and supposedly it was 100
years old then.  If true, it's now 125 years old!  This may be why I can
leave it alone for 2 months and it will revive.  I've dried it (I learned
that from the FAQs last fall).  So far, that's revived too.
************************************************************************
DRYING STARTER
         Lay a strip of wax paper on the counter where you can leave it all
night or for a few days (not a good idea if you live in the South or any
other roach territory).  Spread expanded sourdough as thinly as you can over
the wax paper. It doesn't take much more than a few tablespoons.  Let it sit
until it dries completely.  Remove from wax paper, crumble (or reduce to a
powder in food processor) and store in tightly covered jar.  I live in a dry
climate and keep it in the cabinet.  Others advise freezing it.  Mine's been
in the cabinet only since September 1996, so I'll keep you posted on its
viability over time.
************************************************************************
RESTORING DRIED SOURDOUGH STARTER
         In a glass bowl, mix 1 cup warm water (check on your wrist like you
do for a baby bottle) and 1 or 2 tablespoons dried culture.  Let soak 30
minutes.  Add 1 1/2 cups flour.  Mix well.  Let sit 12 to 18 hours.  It is
ready when it is "lively," i.e. frothy and bubbly.
         You may have to feed this (by adding more flour and water in
proportions of 2:3) more than once to make it lively. Repeat the steps above.
************************************************************************
ADDING STUFF TO BREAD
         To adapt a plain recipe (bagels, for example), you don't have to
measure things like raisins, shredded cheese, dried apricots, garlic or
chocolate chips.  Just throw them in.  Start with 1/4 to 1/2 cup (perhaps
not that much of the garlic  : )  and see how it looks.
         The only thing I've had trouble with were blueberries.  I used
frozen whole ones which made the dough slimy.  I added more flour and they
were ok.
************************************************************************
BAKING STONES:
         I went to the local flooring store, bought 6 smooth quarry tiles
(red "flower pot" material) for about $6.  Having several is nice because
they can be rearranged to fit different loaf and oven sizes.  Most direction
I received on them said to dust them with corn meal to facilitate removing
the bread.  I've found it removes just as well without the corn meal.
         Two of them broke after a few months . . . perhaps because I washed
them before they totally cooled?  The tile man told me they're fired at 1200
degrees and shouldn't break due to oven heat.  Most likely, it's a handling
problem.  The breaks were clean, and I still use them =96 fitting the pieces
together like a jigsaw puzzle.
************************************************************************
OTHER INTERNET SOURCES OF INFORMATION
I haven't looked at all of these . . . just collected them.

baking supplies: yeast, various types of flour, etc.:
http://www.register.com/bluemoon/ Bread baking supplies are in the "Rainbow
Natural Foods" heading in the Blue Moon Shopping Mall.  Once you are in the
Rainbow Natural Foods, there is a heading called "Bread Baking Supplies."

bread recipe archive:  http://haven.ios.com/~wordup/bread.html

bread recipe archive:  http://www.upword.com

bread:  Fleischmann's Yeast World Wide Web site.   Recipes and helpful
baking tips:  http://www.breadworld.com

bread:  ftp://ftp.forsci.ualberta.ca/pub/barb/sourdough/

bread:  http//mindlink.net/darrell_greenwood/

bread:  http://www.countrylife.net/bread/

bread: ftp://ftp.neosoft.com/pub/rec.food.recipes/breads-yeast/

bread-bakers-digest recipe archives:  each digest is archived; there's also
a separate archive of just the recipes in MasterCook format (both text and
MC cookbook formats).  Updated each quarter. From: Reggie & Jeff Dwork
(reggie@reggie.com):  http://www.reggie.com/ftp/archives/bread and
http://www.reggie.com/ftp/archives/bread/recipe

newsgroup:  rec.food.sourdough

sourdough FAQ:   http://mindlink.net/darrell_greenwood/sourdoughfaqs.html

sourdough FAQs:
http://www.reference.com/
  and search for BREAD+BREADS+SOURDOUGH

sourdough recipes both for bread machines and by hand and a bunch of recipes
for starter:  http://soar.berkeley.edu/recipes/baked-goods/breads/sourdough/

sourdough starter recipe:  http://hubcap.clemson.edu/~bmedder/:  report is
that the starter recipe at this site is fantastic.  I don't which one that
refers to=85there are many.

sourdough starter recipe: ftp://ftp.forsci.ualberta.ca/pub/barb/sourdough/

************************************************************************
REMEMBER!  Have fun!  It's just flour and water!

>From: Lobo119@worldnet.att.net


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Sourdough Cheese Rolls

Recipe By     :Better Homes & Gardens Bread Book
Serving Size  : 24    Preparation Time :3:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Sourdough Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  sourdough starter
  1            package  dry yeast
     3/4           cup  warm water -- 110-115 degrees
  4               cups  all-purpose flour -- 4 to 4-1/2 cups
     1/4           cup  sugar
     1/4           cup  butter or margarine -- softened
  1                     egg
  2          teaspoons  salt
     1/2      teaspoon  baking soda
  1                cup  shredded cheddar cheese

Bring Sourdough Starter to room temperature.  In mixer bowl dissolve
yeast in water; mix in 1-1/2 cups of the flour, the sugar, butter,
egg, salt, and Starter.  Beat at low speed of electric mixer 2
minutes, scraping sides of bowl.  Beat 3 minutes at hi.  Punch down.
Cover; let rest 10 minutes.  Divide dough into 24 pieces; shape into
balls on greased baking sheets.  Cover; let rise till nearly double
(25 to 30 minutes).  Bake in 375 degree oven for 20 minutes or till
golden.

>From: "Robert and Carole Walberg" <walbergr@mb.sympatico.ca>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                      Sourdough Corn Bread, Shortcut

Recipe By     :Fleischmann
Serving Size  : 12    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Sourdough Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     2/3           cup  Nonfat Plain Yogurt -- *Note
     1/3           cup  Skim Milk -- **Note
     1/2          Tbsp  Wonderslim -- ***Note
  1                Tsp  Salt
  2 3/4            cup  Bread Flour
     1/2           cup  Cornmeal
  1               Tbsp  Sugar
  2                Tsp  Yeast

*Note:  Original recipe used  low-fat plain yogurt.
**Note:  Original recipe used regular milk.
***Note:  Original recipe used 1 tbsp butter or margarine.

Regular cycle.

Cal  150
Fat        .7
CFF     4.1%

>From: Dawn Forsyth <honu@netgate.net




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Sourdough Rye, Buddy's

Recipe By     :mcilwain@livingston.net and Lobo@worldnet.att.net
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Sourdough Breads
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2                cup  expanded starter
  1                cup  water
  2                cup  rye flour
  1         tablespoon  salt
  1         tablespoon  olive oil
  1         tablespoon  caraway seed
  3                cup  whole wheat flour

2 loaves

Add more (or less) flour as necessary to get a soft dough.  Knead until satiny.  Place in bowl, cover and let rise until doubled in bulk.  Shape into loaves, let rise until doubled in bulk.  Bake 40 minutes at 350 or until it sounds hollow when thumped on the bottom.

Alternate baking method for chewier, salty crust:  Bake 20 minutes at 350, paint with salt water, bake 25 minutes more, painting at 10 minute intervals.




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                        Sourdough Rye #3, Buddy's

Recipe By     :mcilwain@livingston.net and Lobo@worldnet.att.net
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Sourdough Breads
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- The night before:
                        -- Expand 1 c. starter with:
  1                cup  rye flour
     1/2           cup  white flour
     2/3           cup  water
                        Next morning add:
     1/4           cup  water
     1/2    tablespoon  salt
  1         tablespoon  sugar
  1         tablespoon  olive oil
  1         tablespoon  caraway seed
  1                cup  rye flour
  1                cup  white flour

2 loaves

Add more (or less) flour as necessary to get a soft dough.  Knead until
satiny.  Place in bowl, cover and let rise until doubled in bulk.  Shape
into loaves, let rise until doubled in bulk.  Bake 40 minutes at 350 or
until it sounds hollow when thumped on the bottom.

Alternate baking method for chewier, salty crust:  Bake 20 minutes at 350,
paint with salt water, bake 25 minutes more, painting at 10 minute intervals.


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Sourdough Rye Bread #2

Recipe By     :leeson@admin.fhda.edu
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Sourdough Breads
                Whole Grain & Cereal Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  3             pieces  rye bread -- (3 to 6)
                        -- soaked in water and squeezed dry
                        -- about 1 1/2 cups
  3               cups  starter
  1                pkg  yeast
  1         tablespoon  salt
  2         tablespoon  caraway seed
  4               cups  white flour

In mixer with dough hook, place squeezed dry rye, starter, yeast, salt
caraway and 2 cups of the flour. Mix for 5  minutes. Add flour 1/4 to 1/2
cup at a time and knead for 10 min.

Allow to rise for 3/4 hour. Punch down, put on floured board, cut in half
and make each half into a loaf, round or long. Place on a baking sheet
prepared with cornmeal. Allow to rise for 45 minutes.

Preheat over to 450 and keep an empty pan in the oven while it's heating.
Five minutes before putting the bread in the oven, pour 1 cup hot water in
the preheated pan.

Cut top of bread with knife, brush with egg wash, sprinkle with caraway
seeds and bake approx. 40 minutes.  I found this recipe on the internet.

>From: RVLowe@aol.com


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Sourdough Rye Starter

Recipe By     :leeson@admin.fhda.edu
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Fatfree                         Sourdough Breads
                Starter                         Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2               Cups  flour
  1                Cup  yogurt -- room temp
     3/4           cup  water
  2 1/2     tablespoon  cider vinegar
  1         tablespoon  yeast
     1/2      teaspoon  caraway seed -- crushed
     1/2      teaspoon  ground cardamom

Combine all ingredients in large bowl and beat until well blended. Cover
and let stand @ room temp for 24 hours.

For the next three days add to the above mixture 1 cup rye flour, 2 Tbs.
brown sugar dissolved in 3/4 cup warm water, allowing to stand at room temp.
It is then ready to use. For each cup of starter that you use, replenish
with 3/4 cup warm water and 2 Tbs. brown sugar.

>From: RVLowe@aol.com


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                    Sourdough Starter #4 (From Grapes)

Recipe By     :Robert L Odom <rlodom@brazosnet.com>
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Fatfree
                Sourdough Breads                Starter


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  2               cups  bread flour
  2 1/2           cups  water -- tepid (78 F)
                        -- bd (?) pound washed -- stemmed red grapes
                        -- (Red grapes have a stronger flavor)

Mix flower and water together in 2 quart glass or plastic container.  Place the grapes in a double layer on a peace of washed cheesecloth and tie opposite corners together to form a bag.  Lightly crush the grapes with a rolling pin or whatever.  Swish the bag of crushed grapes through the sour dough  slurry to soak it, then submerge it. Cover tightly with cover or plastic wrap and rubber band.  Leave at room temp. for 6 days, stirring with a plastic or wooden spoon once each day. On day 7 lift out the bag of grapes and squeeze their juices back into the  starter, then through the bag away. Stir up the starter thoroughly and transfer it into a clean non-metal container.  Add 1 cup of bread floor and cup  warm water to the starter.  Place in the refrigerator.  Repeat the one cup  bread flour and one cup water for the next two days.  Let set for 3 days a nd it is ready for use.  Starter may be divided into smaller containers, but I suggest leaving it together.  When used, replace with equal amounts of  flower and water.  If you do this the starter will keep under refrigeration  almost indefinitely.  If it goes over 6 mounts without being renewed throw  out half of it and do the 3 day feeding again. If this sounds like too much I will be glad to share my starter with you.   This starter needs feeding.  Starting three days before you use it add 1 cu p flour and one cup water each day.  Leave it out at room temp.  After using what you need, refrigerate.

Now to the process. It takes 12 hours.  What we are going to do is use one cup of flour, one cup and one teaspoon of water from the bread machine receipt to make a sponge.

1. Bring your starter to room temp..
2  In a glass or stainless container mix one cup of warm water, one cup of bread flour and one tablespoon of your starter.
3. Using a fork, whip this mixture briskly to mix and add air to the sponge.
4. Cover the bowl and proof the sponge for 12 to 18 hours in a warm place. I have discovered that the hot water closet stays at 82 degrees and makes a great proofing room.
5. Now get out your bread machine and follow you receipt.  Remember that you have already used one cup of flower and one cup plus one teaspoon of water.





                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : If you do not have a starter I suggest the much criticized one using grapes.  I have been using SD for many years and this one is the best flavored you will find anywhere.

* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Sourdough Starter #5

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips
                Sourdough Breads                Starter


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  6                cup  flour
  1         tablespoon  sugar
  1                pkg  yeast -- (1 T.)
     1/4           cup  warm water
                        water

Dissolve yeast in warm water.  Stir into flour, sugar and enough
water to make a thick batter (the consistency of muffin batter).  Cover, let
stand at least 2 days.  Do not chill yet.  It should be bubbly and foamy,
like the head on beer, except thicker and opaque.  It should smell good ...
yeasty, beer-like, bready.

You now have a starter and can bake bread immediately.  You can
also put it in the refrigerator, take it out another evening to expand it,
and bake bread the next day.  I'll assume now that you want to bake immediately.

>From: Lobo119@worldnet.att.net



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                     Sourdough Sun Dried Tomato Bread

Recipe By     :Ronda Warywoda
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Sourdough Breads
                Vegetable & Herb Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        *****Sponge ******
     1/2           cup  Sourdough Starter
  1                cup  Flour
     1/2           cup  Warm Water -- 105F
                        *****Dough*****
     1/2           cup  sun-dried tomatoes, oil-packed -- sliced  *
     1/2           cup  Chopped Onion
     3/4           cup  Warm Water -- 105F
  1                tsp  Salt
  2               tbsp  Olive Oil -- approx
  2 1/2            cup  Flour -- to 3 1/2 cups
                        Corn Meal

1>  Sponge: Mix the starter, flour and water in a large glass or pottery
bowl.  Cover with plastic wrap and let ripen for 12 hours.
2>  When ready to  make bread, drain tomatoes. Add onion, water, salt,
tomatoes, oil (add to reserved oil to make 2 Tbsp) and 2 cups of flour.
3> Mix on medium for two minutes.  Add remaining flour 1/4 cup at a time
until it pulls away from the sides of bowl.  Continue kneeding until elastic.
4> Place in an oiled bowl, turn and cover with a damp towel.  Let rise until
doubled.  (If making pizza, this is the best time to roll and make.)
5> Gently work with hands to release air.  Let rise a second time.
6> Form into a round, flat loaf on a pan sprinkled with cornmeal.  Brush with
olive oil.  Cover and let rise for 45 minutes.
7> About 15 minutes  before baking, preheat oven to 400.  Put a shallow pan
in the bottom rack.   Place bread on the center rack.  Immediately place 1
cup of ice cubes in shallow pan and close door.  Bake 25 to 30 minutes.

>From: yoda <yodafmly1@nternet.net>



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : * If using dry packed tomatoes, place in a small skillet with the
oil.  Heat over low heat for 8 minutes.

This makes a wonderful pizza crust.



* Exported from MasterCook *

                             Southgate Bread

Recipe By     :Southgate Elementary
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:10
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         White Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     3/4           cup  milk
  3               Tbls  oil
  2               cups  flour
  2               Tbls  sugar
  1                tsp  salt
  1 1/2           tsps  yeast


Add to bread machine in order listed.  Cook on light setting.  Brush with
melted butter when done.

>From: waltersr6@juno.com (Chrystal N Walters)



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                              Spinach Bread

Recipe By     :enkidu@mail.utexas.edu (Enkidu)
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Vegetable & Herb Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -- 1-pound loaf recipe:
     1/2           cup  water
  1                cup  spinach -- boiled or steamed, *
  3         tablespoon  water
  1 1/2            cup  bread flour
     1/2           cup  whole wheat flour -- **
  2          teaspoons  butter -- softened, ***
  1         tablespoon  sugar
  2          teaspoons  nonfat dry milk
  1                tsp  salt
  1 1/4            tsp  yeast

1) Combine the spinach (along with a minimal amount of the cooking liquid
if you have it) with 1/2 cup water. Combine stirring and tearing with your
favorite pointed kitchen implements until the spinach is fairly well
shredded and the water is thoroughly green. This will produce a tacky
texture and a marbled inner appearance. If you prefer a crumb that just
 _screams_ green, you can use a food processor and puree into a shake
instead.

2) Combine the remaining ingredients in the bread pan as mandated by the
manual gods, and set to bake on "white." (No, I don't think you're so
stupid I have to include this step - there's more to come.)

3) Check in on the dough after about five minutes. Chances are it won't
have the proper consistency, due to the completely unpredictable moisture
contribution of the spinach. It's all right if it's a bit liquidy, but the
ball should be entirely cohesive, take on a smooth coat, and gradually
become less sticky. Add water or flour as necessary. When you're satisfied,
close the lid and leave the machine to its work.

NOTES:

*Vulgar as I are, I just used some thawed frozen spinach, which is about as
soggy as you can get. Progressively fresher varieties will probably require
more vigorous tearing and more added water - I don't know if this could be
adapted to uncooked spinach, but if anyone tries it I'd appreciate an
update (enkidu@micronet.net). I'm currently heading up Project Popeye, to
determine just now much spinach I can cram in there - after which the
recipe will be rechristened with that name.

**The original recipe used 2 cups of white flour, and I suspect you can do
the same.

***So it's not a fat-free recipe! Don't let two lousy teaspoons frighten
you off.

off-the-cuff incompetent caloric information (per loaf):
Kilocalories: 1100  Fat Kcal.: 70




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : This mutant grew out of a late-blooming passion for spinach, coupled with a
deep weakness for inappropriately colored foods. I'd always gotten a kick
out of spinach pasta, so I set out to see if the same effect could be
replicated in a loaf of bread. Spinach didn't seem compatible with anything
exotic like rye or sourdough, so I guiltily disinterred the bland, plebeian
old white bread white bread recipe from my bread machine instruction manual
and produced something with the tang and color of the divine leaf and the
indulgent, satiny texture of Won**r Bread.

* Exported from MasterCook *

                     Strawberry Bread, Bon Appetit's

Recipe By     :Bon Appetit Magazine
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Fruit And Spice Breads          Hand Made
                Yeast Free

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  10            ounces  frozen strawberries -- in syrup, thawed,
                        -- undrained
  2                     Eggs
     3/4           cup  Oil
  1 1/2            cup  All-purpose flour
  1                cup  Sugar
  1                tsp  Cinnamon
     1/2           tsp  Baking soda

 Preheat oven to 325-degrees F.

 Puree strawberries in blender or processor.  Combine eggs and oil in
 small bowl and whisk thoroughly.  Sift remaining ingredients into large
 bowl. Make well in center.  Pour in eggs and puree and blend well using
 wooden spoon.
 Pour into 9x5-inch loaf pan.  Bake until tester inserted in center comes
 out clean.  About 1 hour and 10 minutes.  Cool.

>From: Debbie Hrabinski <piggie@worldnet.att.net




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                            Sweet Potato Rolls

Recipe By     :A Trim & Terrific Louisiana Kitchen/ Holly Clegg
Serving Size  : 24    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Vegetable & Herb Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  sweet potatoes, mashed
  3        tablespoons  diet margarine -- melted
                        -- Fleischmann's Lower Fat margarine
  1            package  yeast -- rapid rise
  1 1/4           cups  warm water -- 110-115 degrees
  1              large  egg
  1           teaspoon  Salt -- Morton's Lite
  3        tablespoons  sugar
  5               cups  flour

Blend potatoes with melted margarine. Dissolve yeast in 1/2 cup
warm water. Combine potatoes with egg, salt, sugar & yeast
mixture. Add flour alternately with remaining 3/4 cup water, mixing
until well combined. Turn onto a well floured board & knead.
Place in a bowl coated with Pam. Cover & allow to rise 1 hour in
a warm place. Divide dough into 24 pieces & form into rolls.
Place on a baking sheet coated with Pam & let rise in a warm place
for 30 minutes or until doubled in size. bake at 425F for 15-20 minutes.

Per roll: 121 cal, 1.3 g fat (9.4%), 9 mg chol, 67 mg sod.

>From: JusNeedlin@aol.com




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                       Thyme Cornmeal Scones <R T>

Recipe By     :Pasta Dinners 1,2,3 (Potter)
Serving Size  : 6     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads, Quick/Muffins/Rolls     Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Low Fat
                Vegetable & Herb Breads         Yeast Free


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/4           cup  Diet Margarine -- *Note, Melted
     1/2           cup  Skim Milk -- **Note
  2               Tbsp  Sugar
     1/2           cup  Yellow Cornmeal
  1 1/2            cup  All-Purpose Flour
     1/4           Tsp  Salt
  1                Tsp  Baking Powder
  2               Tbsp  Fresh Thyme Leaves -- Or 1 T Dried

*NOTE:  Original recipe used butter
**NOTE:  Original recipe used regular milk

Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Lightly coat a baking sheet with non-stick
spray. Combine melted butter and milk in a measuring cup. Sift sugar,
cornmeal, flour, salt and baking powder in a mixing bowl. Add milk
mixture to dry ingredients and stir until just blended. Stir in thyme.
Place dough on a floured board and shape into a round about 1/2 inch
thick. Cut into 6 wedges. Place wedges on prepared baking sheet and bake
15-20 minutes, until golden brown. Serve warm.

 Makes 6 scones.

These are excellent!!

Entered into MasterCook and tested for you by Reggie & Jeff Dwork
<reggie@reggie.com>

Copied with permission from The San Jose Mercury News newspaper.





                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Cal  226.5
Fat  5.2g
Carb  38.3g
Fib  0.9g
Pro  4.9g
Sod  234mg
CFF  21.3%




* Exported from MasterCook *

                          Turkey Stuffing Bread

Recipe By     :The Bread Machine Cookbook III,  Donna Rathmell German
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips
                Vegetable & Herb Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        -----SMALL LOAF-----
     2/3           cup  Water
  1              small  Egg
  2        tablespoons  Butter or margarine
     1/4           cup  Diced onion
  1 1/2       teaspoon  Brown sugar -- or white
     1/3      teaspoon  Salt
     1/4      teaspoon  Black pepper -- coarse
     2/3      teaspoon  Dry sage
     2/3      teaspoon  Celery seeds
     1/2      teaspoon  Poultry seasoning
     1/2           cup  Cornmeal
  1 2/3           cups  Bread flour
  1           teaspoon  Yeast
                        -- Flour Equivalent: 2 cups flour
                        -----MEDIUM LOAF-----
  1                cup  Water
  1              large  Egg
  3        tablespoons  Butter or margarine
     1/3           cup  Diced onion
  2 1/4       teaspoon  Brown sugar -- or white
     1/2      teaspoon  Salt
     1/3      teaspoon  Black pepper -- coarse
  1           teaspoon  Dry sage
  1           teaspoon  Celery seeds
     3/4      teaspoon  Poultry seasoning
     2/3           cup  Cornmeal
  2 1/2           cups  Bread flour
  1 1/2       teaspoon  Yeast
                        -- Flour Equivalent: 3 cups flour
                        -----LARGE LOAF-----
  1 1/3           cups  Water
  2              small  Eggs
  4        tablespoons  Butter or margarine
     1/2           cup  Diced onion
  1         tablespoon  Brown sugar -- white
     2/3      teaspoon  Salt
     1/2      teaspoon  Black pepper -- coarse
  1 1/3       teaspoon  Dry sage
  1 1/3       teaspoon  Celery seeds
  1           teaspoon  Poultry seasoning
  1                cup  Cornmeal
  3 1/3           cups  Bread flour
  2           teaspoon  Yeast
                        -- Flour equivalent: 4 1/3 cups

Load machine according to manufacturers directions.

Cycle:  White, sweet; NO timer (egg).
Setting:  Medium.

>From: LIR119@delphi.com  (Joan,"Flour Power")




                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES :  It is delicious to stuff a turkey with as well as  using it as a side dish.


* Exported from MasterCook *

                        Wheat Bread, Brett's Sweet

Recipe By     :Brett_Glass@infoworld.com
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1 1/4            cup  water -- room temp
  4         tablespoon  water -- room temp
  4          teaspoons  yeast
  1         tablespoon  sugar
     1/3           cup  honey
  4          teaspoons  apple butter
                        ---
  1 1/2      teaspoons  salt
                        --
  1         tablespoon  nonfat dry milk
  1           teaspoon  nonfat dry milk
  2               cups  whole wheat flour
                        -- (I use Amberwaves organic)
  2               cups  bread flour
                        -- (I use Hungarian High Altitude
                        unbleached)
     1/2      teaspoon  cinnamon -- or to taste
                        Optional:
     1/4           cup  raisins
                        -- or  currants or dried cranberries
     1/4           cup  crisp rice cereal -- coarsely crushed

Mix the first ingredients in 2-lb bread machine pan.

This recipe works best if you proof the yeast. If you add the
ingredients in the order given and wait for the yeast to foam,
you'll get very uniform results.

Allow yeast to feed 5 minutes or until small bubbles
are visible. Then, add the salt. And mix well. Add the remaining ingredients.

Start the machine and bake on the whole wheat cycle (if
available). Be prepared to adjust moisture according to altitude
and moisture content of flour. (This recipe sometimes requires an
extra tablespoon or two of water at 7300 feet, where I now live.)
The nonfat dry milk and high-gluten flour make this recipe
relatively tolerant of small variations in measurement.

Try the medium crust setting first and adjust if needed.



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Here's a sweet, full-bodied whole wheat bread that contains
almost no fat. (There's no added shortening in it at all, which
surprises tasters who labor under the misapprehension that low-fat
cooking can't be good.) Great for toast or with non-fat cream cheese.

* Exported from MasterCook *

                            White Bread, Basic

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Pizza And Calzones


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  6               cups  bread flour -- up to 6 1/2 cups
  3        tablespoons  sugar
  2          teaspoons  salt
     1/4      teaspoon  ground ginger
  2        tablespoons  gluten, wheat
     1/4           cup  nonfat dry milk -- up to 1/2 cup
                        -- omit if making pizza dough
  3        tablespoons  shortening
  4          teaspoons  yeast -- up to 6 tsp
  2 1/4           cups  warm water
                        -- 2-3 T olive oil -- for pizza dough

Yield:  2 pizzas or 2 standard-sized loaves or 16 rolls

Stir together:
approx. 6 to 6-1/2 c. bread flour (all-purpose can be substituted if
you wish) 3 T. granulated sugar 2 t. salt 1/4 t. ground ginger 2 T.
gluten flour 1/4 to 1/2 c. powdered milk (do not use for pizza dough)
3 T. soft shortening (optional in standard bread and rolls; do not use
for pizza)

Stir in:
4-1/2 to 6 t. granulated yeast (I use the instant stuff, but you can
use the longer-rising yeast if you wish)

Add:
2-1/4 c. warm water (approx. 110-120 degrees -- warm to the wrist)

FOR PIZZA:
I also add approximately 2-3 Tbsp. of good-quality olive oil, and
often some Italian spices such as rosemary, basil, thyme, savory, etc.

If you are using a KitchenAid, knead for approximately 9 minutes by
machine; otherwise, use your standard hand-kneading techniques.  Place
dough in a greased bowl; cover loosely with plastic wrap or a tea
towel.  Place dough in a warm, draft-free location (in the summer my
hot garage serves as my "proofing oven") until it has doubled in bulk.
 Punch down; let rise again until doubled.  Punch down; divide dough
into two equal portions.

-------- FOR STANDARD BREAD:

Shape into loaves and place into greased loaf pans.  Cover loosely
with plastic wrap or tea towel.  Place in a warm location until dough
has risen approximately 1/4" to 1/2" above top of loaf pan.

Bake in preheated oven at 375 degrees Fahrenheit for approximately 25
minutes. Remove loaves from pans; place loaves (without pans) back
into oven.  Bake for approximately 5-15 minutes longer until loaves
are golden-brown and sound hollow when tapped.

Remove loaves from oven; place on wire racks to cool thoroughly.

NOTE:  I use the basic proportions in this recipe to make most of my
breads, often substituting a portion of the bread flour with
whole-wheat or rye flour, adding ingredients such as cinnamon, egg,
raisins, etc.  You can also substitute warm milk for the warm water.
I often make sweet rolls, breakfast breads, white bread, wheat bread,
and so forth with the basic proportions presented here.

-------- FOR PIZZA:

Roll out dough into rounds, from 1/4" to 1/2" thick depending on how
thick you like your crusts (remember to allow for rising).  If you are
using a pizza peel, sprinkle some cornmeal on the peel and put dough
on peel before continuing; otherwise, place dough on baking sheet or
pan.  Prick dough all over gently -- don't make holes through bottom
or topping will drip through.  Brush dough lightly with olive oil,
making sure to brush around edges, as well.  Put toppings on dough
(e.g., tomato paste, pepperoni, cheese, garlic, sun-dried tomatoes,
cooked sausage or hamburger, etc.) and set aside until oven is
preheated.

Bake in preheated oven at 450 degrees Fahrenheit until crust is
lightly golden and cheese starts to bubble and melt.  Remove from
oven; cut into sections and serve immediately.

NOTE:  I find that the use of a baking stone makes a nicely finished
crust on the bottom, avoiding any soggy bits inside the pizza.  If you
are using a stone or tiles, be sure that they are preheated thoroughly
(e.g., at least 15 minutes) prior to placing the pizza on the stone or
tiles.

>From: "Joan Mathew" <cmathew@iadfw.net>


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                        White Bread, Thirty-Minute

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Breads                          Fatfree
                Hand Made                       Low Fat
                White Breads

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  1                cup  milk
  2         tablespoon  vegetable shortening
                        -- or softened -- unsalted butter
  3          teaspoons  salt
  1                cup  warm water
  2         tablespoon  yeast -- quick rise
  2         tablespoon  sugar
  6               cups  bread flour -- approximately (6 to
                        -- 7)
  2         tablespoon  butter -- melted

Warm the milk in a saucepan to soften the shortening or butter for a
few moments.  Add the salt and the lukewarm water.

In a large mixing bowl, combine 2 c. flour and yeast and beat for 3
minutes at medium speed in an electric mixer.  Gradually add 2 more
cups flour, and continue beating for 3 minutes.

Turn off the mixer and add about 2 more cups flour.  Work it in until
the dough becomes stiff.  Knead for about 8-9 minutes with dough hook.

Divide dough in half and shape the balls.  Let rest under a cloth for
5 minutes to allow dough to relax.  Form the loaves by pressing each
into an oval, roughly the length of the baking pan.  Fold the oval in
half, pinch the seam tightly to seal, tuck under the ends, and place
seam down in the pan.  Brush the loaves with melted butter.

Place pans in a warm, draft-free location.  Cover with tea towel or
plastic wrap and allow to rise until doubled in bulk, about 30 minutes
(hence, the recipe name).

Place pans in cold oven, turn to 400 degrees Fahrenheit and bake for
45 minutes or until loaves are brown.  When done, they will sound
hollow when tapped on the bottom with a forefinger.  If the crust is
soft, return to the oven without the pans for approximately 10
minutes. If using a convection oven, temperature should be dropped by
50 degrees.

Place loaves on racks to cool thoroughly.

This bread freezes very well.
>From: "Joan Mathew" <cmathew@iadfw.net>

http://www.geocities.com/Heartland/8098/


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



* Exported from MasterCook *

                           Whole Wheat Bread #8

Recipe By     :Vickie Kelley <vickie@poincare.atmos.colostate.edu>
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Bread Machine                   Breads
                Fatfree                         Whole Grain & Cereal Breads


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/2           cup  Buttermilk
  1                     water
     1/4          cups  Water
     1/8           cup  Honey
     1/2      teaspoon  Salt
  2 1/2           cups  whole wheat flour
     1/2           cup  gluten, wheat
     1/2           cup  nonfat dry milk
     1/3           cup  oatmeal -- uncooked
  1         tablespoon  yeast -- (I use Saf)
     1/2    tablespoon  C-1 Dough Conditioner

Add all ingredients to pan in order listed.  Set machine on quick or
rapid cycle.  OR you can play around with it to see which setting works
best for you.



                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : I thought I would share a nice whole wheat bread recipe I have adapted
over the months.  It works really well and I get a good rise out of it.
I use a Zoji on the quick bread setting (believe it or not).  It works.


* Exported from MasterCook *

                       Yeast: Definitions Of Types

Recipe By     :Red Star
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Fatfree                         Miscellaneous & Tips


  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                  ****

BAKER'S COMPRESSED YEAST

This yeast is sold to the commercial and retail bakers throughout
the United States.  It comes in one pound and five pound cakes and
crumble fifty pound bags.  In order to achieve the solid
formulation, the "yeast cream" is pumped into presses where the
excess water is removed.  Once pressed, the resulting "cake" yeast
is transferred to mixers, to assure uniformity, and then to
extruders where the proper lengths and weights are cut.  After the
cakes are wrapped or bagged, they are stored in refrigerated rooms
to await shipment.

Compressed Yeast is also called "wet yeast" or "fresh yeast."  It
is traditionally sold to consumers in two sizes: 2 ounce and 8
ounce blocks.  The yeast is characterized by a high moisture
content (about 70%).  It is perishable and should be stored under
refrigeration at all times.  The shelf life is about 8 weeks from
packaging.

			 ACTIVE DRY YEAST

This yeast is processed one step further than Compressed Yeast.  It
is extruded into noodle form, loaded onto a conveyor belt and
passed through a series of drying chambers where warm air is blown
through the yeast.  The yeast emerges with a moisture content of
about 8% as compared to 70% moisture in Compressed Yeast.  Due to
the low moisture content, the yeast is in a semi-dormant state.
Therefore, it can stand long periods of exposure with little effect
on its ultimate baking activity.  The packages are nitrogen flushed
to extend the shelf life which is about one year from packaging.
This yeast is sold in a 3-pack strip and a 4-ounce jar.


		       QUICK RISE (tm) YEAST

This is a high activity yeast strain created by protoplast fusion,
the scientific technique of combining two separate yeast strains
into a superior single strain.  The manufacturing process is the
same as for Active Dry Yeast, except that ascorbic acid is added as
a dough conditioner or enhancer.  It is also available in nitrogen
flushed 3-strip packages and 4-ounce jars.


			 NUTRITIONAL YEAST

The nutritional "yeast cream" is heated by means of a heat
exchanger and held at pasteurization temperatures for a period long
enough to kill the yeast.  During this holding period, the
necessary vitamins are added to meet the requirements of the
specific type of nutritional yeast produced.  The yeast is then
drum dried before it is ground and shipped to consumers.  SEE
NUTRITIONAL YEAST PROCESS CHART [not included].  Nutritional yeast
is marketed for its protein and vitamin content with no leavening
power.  The drying process assures that all the cells are killed in
order for the full nutritional benefits to be available.
One stick of butter is 113 grams (metric system weight).  By
American volume measurement, this same stick of butter is also 8
tablespoons which, in turn, is equivalent to one-half cup.

>From: bc151@cleveland.Freenet.Edu (Ken Fisler)


                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


